babble	 chatter idly or foolishly; make continuous sounds like water running gently over rounded stone; N.
bacchanal	 noisy party with a lot of drinking
bacchanalia	 the ancient Roman festival in honor of Bacchus
bacchanalian	 drunken
backslide	 revert (to bad habits); N. reverter
backwards	 and forwards; Ex. reciprocate his invitation by inviting him; N. reciprocity: reciprocal relationship; mutual interchange of advantages between two groups; Ex. reciprocity in trading rights
badger	 pester; annoy continually with demands; persuade by asking again and again; Ex. The children badgered me into taking them into the cinema; N: a kind of mountain animal
badinage	 teasing conversation; banter; joking talk
baffle	 frustrate; perplex
bait	 harass; tease; torment; Ex. badger baiting; N: food or other lure used to catch fish or trap animals
baleful	 evil; malignant in intent or effect; deadly; having a malign influence; portending evil; ominous; threatening; Ex. baleful look
balk	 stop short, as if faced with an obstacle, and refuse to continue; foil; stop or get in the way of; frustrate
ballast	 heavy substance used to add stability or weight; V. supply with ballast
balm	 something that relieves pain; oily liquid with a pleasant smell from trees
balmy	 soft and mild (of air); fragrant
banal	 hackneyed; commonplace; trite; lacking originality; clich\'ed
bandy	 discuss lightly or glibly; discuss in a frivolous manner; exchange (words) heatedly; quarrel; Ex. bandy words with
bane	 posion; cause of ruin; ADJ. baneful: harmful; poisonous
bank	 heap; piled-up mass; embankment; lateral tilting (as of an aircraft in turning); V: pile up; protect with a bank; tilt in turning
bantering	 joking talk; good-naturedly ridiculing; N.V. banter
bar	 railing in a courtroom; legal profession; vertical line dividing a staff into equal measures; Ex. prisoner at the bar; V: shut in or out with bars; forbid; exclude; CF. barrister
barb	 sharp projection from fishhook, arrow, or other object; openly cutting remark
bard	 poet
barefaced	 shameless and noticeable; blatant; bold; unconcealed; having no covering on the face; Ex. barefaced lie
bargain	 agreement between two groups or people; something for sale at a price advantageous to the buyer; V: negotiate; trade; Ex. bargaining power
baroque	 highly ornate
barrage	 barrier laid down by artillery fire; overwhelming profusion; large number of questions or statements; Ex. a barrage of criticism
barrister	 counselor-at-law or lawyer in the higher court of law; CF. bar
barterer	 trader; V. barter: trade; exchange good for other goods rather than money
base	 contemptible; morally bad; inferior in value or quality; Ex. base motives/conduct; Ex. base metal such as iron
bask	 luxuriate; take pleasure in warmth
bastard	 illegitimate child
bastion	 stronghold; something seen as a source of protection; Ex. the last bastion of male chauvinism
bate	 let down; lessen the force of; moderate; restrain; Ex. with bated breath; CF. abate
battalion	 army unit made up of four or more companies
bauble	 trinket; cheap jewel; trifle
bawdy	 indecent; obscene; about sex in a rude funny way; CF. bawd
bearing	 deportment; connection
beatific	 giving or showing bliss; blissful
beatitude	 blessedness; state of great happiness
bedizen	 dress with vulgar finery
bedraggle	 wet thoroughly; ADJ. bedraggled: draggled
beeline	 direct quick route
befuddle	 confuse thoroughly
beget	 father; become the father of; produce; give rise to
begrudge	 envy; give or allow unwillingly; grudge; Ex. We shouldn't begrudge him his success.
beguile	 deceive; mislead or delude; cheat; pass time pleasantly; charm or attract; Ex. beguiling smile
behemoth	 huge creature; something of monstrous size or power
beholden	 obligated; indebted; owing thanks; obliged or indebted from gratitude
behoove(behove)	 be suited to; be incumbent upon; be right and necessary; Ex. It behooves one to do.
belabor	 harp on; dwell on tediously; explain or go over excessively or to a ridiculous degree; assail verbally; beat severely; attack physically
belated	 delayed
beleaguer	 besiege or attack (with an army); harass; beset
belie	 contradict; give a false impression; disguise; Ex. The poor sales belied our high hopes; Ex. Her smile belies her true feeling of displeasure.
belittle	 disparage; depreciate
bellicose	 warlike
belligerent	 quarrelsome
bemoan	 lament; moan for; express sorrow or disapproval of
bemused	 confused; lost in thought; preoccupied
benediction	 blessing
benefactor	 gift giver; patron; person who does good or who gives money for a good purpose
beneficent	 kindly; doing good
beneficial	 helpful; useful; advantageous
beneficiary	 person entitled to benefits or proceeds of an insurance policy or will
benefit	 advantage; anything that brings helpl, advantage, or profit; money provided by the government to the people; fund-raising public entertainment; Ex. unemployment benefit; V: receive benefits; be beneficial to; give benefits
benevolent	 generous; charitable; having a wish to do good
benign	 kindly; favorable; not malignant (disease); Ex. benign tumor
benison	 blessing
bent	 determined; Ex. bent on advancing in the business; N: natural talent or inclination
bequeath	 leave to someone by means of a will; hand down in his will; N. bequest
berate	 scold strongly
bereaved	 deprived of (someone beloved through death)
bereavement	 state of being deprived of something valuable or beloved; state of being bereaved or bereft
bereft	 deprived of (something valuable); lacking
berserk	 mad with violent anger; frenzied; madly excited
beseech	 beg; plead with
beset	 harass or trouble from all directions; hem in
besiege	 surround with armed forces; harass (with requests); annoy continually
besmirch	 soil; defile; make dirty
bestial	 beastlike; brutal; inhuman; very cruel
bestow	 confer
betoken	 signify; indicate; be a sign of
betray	 be unfaithful; reveal (unconsciously or unwillingly); Ex. Her trembling hands betray her anxiety.
betroth	 become engaged to marry
bevy	 large group; Ex. a bevy of starlets
beware	 be cautious (of)
bewitch	 cast a spell over; captivate completely
bicameral	 two-chambered as a legislative body
bicker	 quarrel
bid	 command; utter (a greeting); offer as a price; N: offer of a price; amount offered; earnest effort to gain something; Ex. bid for freedom
biennial	 every two years
bifurcated	 divided into two branches; forked
bigot	 one who is intolerant (in matters of religion or politics)
bigotry	 stubborn intolerance
bilious	 suffering from indigestion; sick from having too much bile; irritable; easily irritated
bilk	 swindle; cheat
billow	 large wave of water; a great swell or surge (of smoke); V: surge, swell, roll in billows
billowing	 swelling out in waves; surging
biting	 sharply painful to the body or mind; Ex. biting wind/remarks
bitter	 having a sharp biting taste; ?; causing sharp pain to the body or mind; filled with resentment, disappointment, or other unpleasant feelings; Ex. bitter wind/sorrow/tears
bivouac	 temporary encampment; camp without tents; V.
bizarre	 fantastic; violently contrasting; noticeably odd; strikingly unconventional
blackball	 vote against (an applicant); ostracize; N: negative vote
blanch	 bleach; whiten; make white or pale
bland	 soothing or mild (food); agreeable; causing no trouble or offence
blandishment	 flattery
blare	 loud or harsh roar or screech; dazzling blaze of light
blase	 bored with pleasure or dissipation; uninterested or bored
blasphemy	 irreverence; sacrilege; cursing; bad language about God or holy things; V. blasphem; ADJ. blasphemous; CF. sacrilege
blatant	 extremely (offensively) obvious; loudly offensive; Ex. blatant lie; N. blatancy
bleak	 cold or cheerless; frigid; unlikely to be favorable; depressing
blemish	 mar; spoil the beauty or perfection of; N: flaw or defect (that spoils perfection); Ex. blemishes in the crystal; CF. unblemished
blight	 plant disease; V: infect with blight; ruin; destroy
blighted	 suffering from a disease; destroyed
bliss	 complete happiness; ADJ. blissful
blithe(blithesome)	 gay; joyous
bloated	 (unpleasantly) swollen or puffed as with water or air
blotch	 spot; blot; CF. blot+botch
blowhard	 talkative boaster; braggart
bludgeon	 club; heavy-headed weapon; V.
blue	 gloomy; depressed
blues	 state of depression or melancholy; style of slow, mournful music (evolved from southern Black American songs)
bluff	 pretense (of strength); deception; high cliff; ADJ: rough but good-natured
blunder	 error; stupid mistake
blunt	 having a dull edge; abrupt and frank in speech or manner; brusque; V: make or become blunt
blurt	 utter impulsively from nervousness or excitement
blush	 become red in the face (from embarrassment or shame); become red or rosy; N.
bluster	 blow in heavy gusts; threaten emptily; bully; speak in a noisy or bullying manner; CF. breeze, gust, gale
bode	 foreshadow; portend
bog	 soft wet land; V: hinder or be hindered; Ex. bogged down in the mud
bogus	 counterfeit; not authentic; intentionally false; Ex. bogus interview
Bohemian	 unconventional (in an artistic way)
boisterous	 violent; rough; noisy
bolster	 support; reinforce
bolt	 door bar; fastening pin or screw; length of fabric; large roll of cloth; V: dash or dart off; fasten (a | door); gobble down
bombardment	 attack (as with missiles or bombs); V. bombard
bombast	 grandiloquent, pompous speech
bombastic	 pompous; using inflated language
bookish	 fond of books and reading
boon	 blessing; benefit; something very helpful
boor	 rude, insensitive person
boorish	 rude; insensitive
boost	 lift by pushing up from below; increase; raise; N: push upward; increase
botch	 mismanage; blow
bouillon	 clear beef (or meat) soup
bound	 leap or spring; limit or confine; constitute the limit of; Ex. bounded by Canada; N: leap or jumping; boundary; ADJ: certain; having a duty to do something (legally or morally); confined by bonds; Ex. We are bound to be late; Ex. I am bound to
bountiful	 generous; graciously generous; showing bounty
bourgeois	 middle class; selfishly materialistic; too interested in material possessions
bout	 match; short period of great activity; Ex. wrestling bout; bout of drinking/flu
bovine	 cowlike; placid and dull; slow-thinking; calm
bowdlerize	 expurgate; CF. Thomas Bowdler
brackish	 somewhat saline
brag	 boast
braggadocio	 boasting
braggart	 boaster; bragger
braid	 plait; interweave strands or lengths of; make by weaving strands together; N: braided segment (as of hair)
brand	 trademark; mark burned on the hide of an animal; mark burned into the flesh of criminals; mark of disgrace; V: mark with a brand; give a lasting bad name; stigmatize; Ex. The press branded him a liar.
brandish	 wave around (a weapon); flourish
bravado	 swagger; assumed air of defiance; false show of bravery
brave	 face courageously; Ex. brave the storm
brawl	 noisy quarrel
brawn	 human muscle; muscular strength; sturdiness
brawny	 muscular; having well-developed muscles
brazen	 insolent; without shame; bold; Ex. brazen lie; V: face with bold self-assurance or with unshamed confidence
breach	 breaking of contract or duty; fissure or gap; opening; V.
breadth	 width; extent
breed	 produce young; rear; bring up; produce (an undesirable condition); N: kind or sort of animal or plant
brevity	 conciseness; shortness of duration
bridle	 harness fitted about a horse's head (used to restrain); curb; check; V: put a bridle on; control or restrain; show anger
brim	 uppermost edge of a cup; projecting rim (as on a hat); Ex. The glass was full to the brim; V: be full to the brim
brindled	 tawny or grayish with streaks or spots (of animals)
brink	 edge (at the top of a cliff); Ex. on the brink of the Grand Canyon
brisk	 quick and active; marked by liveliness and vigor
bristle	 short stiff hair; V: (hair or fur) stand up stiffly
bristling	 rising like bristles; showing irritation
brittle	 hard but easily broken; difficult; unstable; Ex. brittle situation
broach	 introduce as a subject; moot; open up
brocade	 rich, figured(patterned) fabric
brochure	 pamphlet
broil	 cook by direct heat; N.
bromide	 platitude; chemical compound used to calm excitement
brooch	 ornamental clasp; pin
brood	 sit on in order to hatch; think deeply or worry anxiously; N: the young of certain animals; group of young birds hatched at one time
brook	 tolerate; endure; Ex. brook no interference; N: small stream
browbeat	 bully; intimidate
browse	 graze; feed on growing grass; skim or glance at casually
bruise	 injure without breaking the skin; N.
brunt	 main impact or shock (of an attack or blow); Ex. brunt of the argument
brusque	 blunt; abrupt; curt; not wanting to waste time being nice
buccaneer	 pirate
bucolic	 rustic; pastoral
buffet	 strike forcefully; slap; batter; knock out; N: table with food set out for people to server themselves; meal at which people help themselves to food that's been set
buffoon	 stupid person; clown
buffoonery	 clowning
bugaboo	 bugbear; object of baseless terror
bulge	 protruding part; swelling of a surface; Ex. The apple made a bulge in his pocket; V: swell outward; protrude
bulk	 size or volume (esp. when very large); main part; Ex. The bulk of the work has already been done; ADJ. bulky: having great size
bullion	 gold and silver in the form of bars
bully	 one who is habitually cruel to weaker people; V.
bulwark	 strong wall built for defense; earthwork or other strong defense; person who defends
bump	 hit or knock against with force; N.
bungle	 mismanage; blunder; botch; blow; spoil by clumsy behavior
buoyant	 able to float; cheerful and optimistic; N. buoyancy; Ex. buoyancy of wood/water/American market
bureaucracy	 overregulated administrative system marked by red tape; ADJ. bureaucratic
burgeon	 grow rapidly; grow forth; send out buds; Ex. burgeoning computer industry; CF. bludgeon
burlesque	 give an imitation that ridicules; imitate mockingly
burnish	 make shiny by rubbing; polish
bust	 piece of sculpture showing a person's head, shoulders, and upper chest; V: break up; arrest; Ex. crimebuster
buttress	 support; prop up; N. stationary structure to support wall; Ex. flying buttress
buxom	 full-bosomed; plump; jolly