cabal	 small group of persons secretly united to promote their own interests
cache	 hiding place; V.
cacophonous	 discordant; inharmonious; N. cacophony: unpleasant mixture of loud sounds
cadaver	 corpse; dead human body
cadaverous	 like a corpse; pale
cadence	 rhythmic rise and fall (of words or sounds); beat; regular beat of sound; rhythm
cadet	 student at a military school
cajole	 persuade by praise or false promise; coax; wheedle
calamity	 disaster; misery
calculated	 deliberately planned; likely
caldron(cauldron)	 large kettle
caliber	 ability; quality; diameter of the inside of a round cylinder; Ex. work of very high caliber
calligraphy	 beautiful writing; excellent penmanship
callous	 hardened; unfeeling; without sympathy for the sufferings of others; unkind
callow	 youthful; immature; inexperienced
callus	 area of thick hard skin
calorific	 heat-producing; N. calorie
calumny	 malicious misrepresentation; slander
camaraderie	 good-fellowship; CF. comrade
cameo	 shell or jewel carved in relief; star's special appearance in a minor role in a film
camp	 group sharing a common cause or opinion
canard	 unfounded false rumor; exaggerated false report
candor	 frankness; open honesty; ADJ. candid
canine	 related to dogs; doglike
canker	 any ulcerous sore; ulcer; any evil; CF. cancer
canny	 shrewd in money matters; thrifty
cant	 insincere speech or expression of piety; jargon of thieves; special words used by a particular group of people
cantankerous	 ill-humored; irritable
cantata	 story set to music to be sung by a chorus (shorter than an oratorio)
canter	 slow gallop; V. CF. trot
canto	 division of a long poem
canvass	 determine or seek opinions, votes, etc.; go through (a region) to solicit votes or orders; conduct a survey; N.
capacious	 spacious
capacity	 mental or physical ability; role; position or duty; ability to accommodate; Ex. in my capacity as president
capillary	 having a very fine bore; resembling a hair; fine and slender; Ex. capillary attraction; N: very fine hairlike tube; CF. capillarity
capitulate	 surrender; give up all resistance
caprice	 whim; sudden change of mind without any real cause
capricious	 unpredictable; fickle
capsize	 (of a boat) turn over
caption	 title; chapter heading; text under illustration
captious	 faultfinding; too critical
carafe	 glass water bottle; decanter
carapace	 shell covering the back (of a turtle, tortoise, crab, etc.)
carat(karat)	 unit of weight for precious stones; measure of the purity of gold
carcinogenic	 causing cancer; N. carcinogen
cardinal	 chief; most important; N: priest; cardinal number: number that shows quantity rather thatn order
cardiologist	 doctor specializing in ailments of the heart
careen	 lurch; sway from side to side; move with irregular swinging movement; stagger
career	 rush wildly; go at full speed
carefree	 free from worries; having no problems
caricature	 distortion; burlesque
carillon	 a set of bells (often in a tower) capable of being played
carnage	 destruction of life; slaughter; killing of large numbers of people or animals
carnal	 fleshly; sensual; concerning the desires of the body
carnivorous	 meat-eating; N. carnivore; CF. herbivore
carousal	 drunken revel; V. carouse
carping	 petty criticism; fault-finding; fretful complaining; quibble
carrion	 rotting flesh of a dead body; CF. vulture
cartographer	 map-maker
cascade	 small waterfall
caste	 one of the hereditary classes in Hindu society; social stratification; prestige
castigation	 punishment; severe criticism or disapproval
castrate	 remove the sex organs (of a male animal or person)
casual	 happening by chance; irregular; occasional; informal; showing or feeling little interest; Ex. casual reader/labor/remark
casualty	 serious or fatal accident; person killed or wounded in an accident or battle
cataclysm	 deluge; upheaval; earthquake; violent and sudden event or change
catalyst	 agent which brings about a chemical change while it remains unaffected and unchanged; CF. catalysis
catapult	 slingshot; hurling machine; V: fire from catapult
cataract	 great waterfall; eye abnormality (causing a gradual loss of eyesight)
catastrophe	 calamity ; disaster
catcall	 shout of disapproval or displeasure (made at the theater or a sports match); boo; V.
catechism	 book for religious instruction in question-and-answer form; religious instruction by question and answer; V. catechize
categorical	 without exceptions; made without any doubt in mind; unqualified; absolute
cater	 provide food and drink (for); cater to: try to satisfy (desires of a bad kind)
catharsis	 purging or cleansing of any passage of the body; purging and weakening of strong emotions as a result of experiencing a dramatic work of art
cathartic	 purgative; medicine that causes the bowels to empty; ADJ.
catholic	 (of likings and interests) universal; general; broad; including many different parts; wide-ranging liberal; Ex. catholic opinions/tastes
caucus	 private meeting of a group of people in a political party to select officers or determine policy; CF. the Caucus club of Boston
caulk(calk)	 make watertight (by blocking up cracks as in a ship)
causal	 implying a cause-and-effect relationship; N. causality
caustic	 burning; corrosive; able to burn by chemical action; sarcastically biting; (of remarks) intended to hurt; bitter; harmful; OP. harmless
cauterize	 burn (a wound or snakebite, etc.) with hot iron or caustic substance to stop bleeding and prevent infection
cavalcade	 procession of riders or horse-drawn carriages; parade; CF. cavalry
cavalier	 casual and offhand; arrogant; N: knight
cavil	 quibble; make frivolous objections; find fault unnecessarily
cede	 yield (title or territory) to (esp. after losing a war); surrender formally; N. cession
celerity	 speed; rapidity
celestial	 heavenly
celibate	 abstaining from sexual intercourse; unmarried; N. celibacy
cemetery	 place for burying the dead
censor	 (in ancient Rome) overseer of morals (also taking the census); person who eliminates inappropriate matter; V.
censorious	 severely critical
censure	 blame; criticize; express strong disapproval; N: severe criticism; strong disapproval
centaur	 mythical figure, half man and half horse
centigrade	 denoting a widely used temperature scale (basically same as Celsius)
centrifugal	 radiating; departing from the center
centrifuge	 machine that separates substances by whirling them
centripetal	 tending toward the center
centurion	 Roman army officer (commanding a company of about 100 soldiers)
cerebral	 pertaining to the brain or intellect; intellectual rather than emotional; CF. cerebrum
cerebration	 thought; working of the brain
ceremonious	 marked by formality; extremely formal and polite; CF. ceremony: conventional social courtesy
certitude	 certainty
cessation	 stoppage
cession	 yielding to another; ceding
chafe	 warm by rubbing; make sore by rubbing; N.
chaff	 worthless products of an endeavor; husk(outer seed cover) separated from grain; Ex. separate the wheat from the chaff
chaffing	 bantering; joking
chagrin	 annoyance and disappointment; vexation (caused by humiliation or injured pride)
chalice	 goblet; consecrated cup
chameleon	 lizard that changes color in different situations
champion	 support militantly; fight for; N: person who fights for or supports strongly (a principle, movement, person, etc.)
championship	 position of champion; defense or support; competition held to determine a champion
chancellor	 legal official of high rank; CF. chancellery(chancellory): position of a chancellor
chant	 tune(melody) in which a number of words are sung on the same note; V: sing (a chant); utter (a slogan) in the manner of a chant
chaotic	 in utter disorder
chapel	 small church (in a prison, college, or hospital)
chaperon	 older person who accompanies and supervises a young unmarried woman
chaplain	 clergyman attached to a chapel
char	 make or become black by burning; reduce or be reduced to carbon or charcoal(black substance made by burning wood) by incomplete combustion
charisma	 divine gift; great popular charm or appeal; magnetism
charlatan	 quack; pretender to knowledge (esp. in medicine)
charm	 quality of pleasing; amulet; action or formula thought to have magical power; spell; V: attract; cast a spell on; bewitch
chary	 cautious; unwilling to take risks; sparing or restrained about giving; OP. bold
chase	 ornament a metal surface by indenting; follow rapidly to catch
chasm	 abyss; very deep crack
chassis	 framework and working parts of an automobile; framework to which components are attached
chaste	 morally pure; virginal; abstaining from illicit sexual acts; modest; simple (of a style of writing); not highly decorated; austere
chasten	 discipline; punish in order to correct; CF. castigate
chastise	 punish as by beating; criticize severely
chauvinist	 blindly devoted patriot; zealous adherent of a group, cause, or sex; ADJ. chauvinistic; CF. chauvinism; Nicolas Chauvin
check	 stop motion; curb or restrain
checkered(chequered)	 marked by great changes in fortune; with many changes of fortuene; CF. checked: having a pattern of squares
cherubic	 angelic; innocent-looking; N. cherub; CF. seraph: winged angel of the highest order
chicanery	 trickery; deception
chide	 scold; rebuke (someone who has done wrong)
chimerical	 fantastically improbable; highly unrealistic; N. chimera: unreal fancy; fire-breathing female creature
chip	 lose a small piece from the surface or edge; N: small piece broken off something; CF. French fry; Potato chip/crisp
chisel	 swindle or cheat; N: wedgelike tool for cutting
chivalrous	 courteous; faithful; brave; N. chivalry
choice	 delicate; of very fine quality
choir	 group of people who sing together (esp. during religious services); place for choir
choleric	 hot-tempered; bad-tempered; irritable; easily angered; CF. cholera
chore	 daily domestic task (such as cleaning, cooking, and shopping); unpleasant task
choreography	 art of representing dances in written symbols; arrangement of dances
chortle	 chuckle with delight; N.
chorus	 phrase repeated throughout a song or poem
chronic	 long established as a disease
chronicle	 report; record (in chronological order)
chuckle	 laugh quietly
churlish	 boorish; rude; N. churl: boor; yahoo
ciliated	 having minute hairs; CF. cilium; CF. cilia: eyelash
cipher	 nonentity; worthless person or thing; zero; secret code; V.
circlet	 small ring; band of gold, silver, jewel, etc. (worn on the head, arms, or neck as decoration)
circuit	 closed circular line around an area; circumference; regularly repeated journey from place to place
circuitous	 roundabout
circumlocution	 indirect or roundabout expression (by using an uncecessarily large number of words esp. when trying to avoid answering a difficult question directly)
circumscribe	 limit; confine; draw a line around
circumspect	 prudent; cautious; acting after careful thought
circumvent	 outwit; defeat by behaving more cleverly; outsmart; baffle; avoid; get around
cistern	 reservoir or water tank
citadel	 fortress
cite	 quote; commend; Ex. cited for bravery in an official record
civil	 having to do with citizens; not military or religious; courteous and polite; Ex. married in a civil ceremony; Ex. civil strife/disorder/law; N. civility; CF. civic
clairvoyant	 having foresight; fortuneteller; N. clairvoyance
clamber	 climb by crawling with difficulties; scramble
clamor	 loud continous noise; continuous demand or complaint made by a large number of people; V: make a clamor; express (a demand) continually and loudly; ADJ. clamorous
clandestine	 secret
clangor	 loud resounding noise; sound of repeated clanging
clap	 strike the palms of the hands together with a sudden explosive sound; come together suddenly with a sharp sound; put or send promptly; Ex. clap the thief in jail; N: clapping; loud or explosive sound; CF. applause
clapper	 striker (tongue) of a bell
clarion	 shrill, trumpetlike sound; kind of trumpet used in former times
clasp	 hold firmly within arms
claustrophobia	 fear of being locked in
clavicle	 collarbone
cleave	 split or sever; cling to; remain faithful to; N. cleavage; ADJ. cloven
cleft	 N: split
clemency	 disposition to be lenient in deciding punishments; mildness as of the weather; ADJ. clement
clich\'e	 phrase dulled in meaning by repetition; platitude; ADJ. clich\'ed
clientele	 body of customers
climactic	 relating to the highest point; N. climax; CF. climatic
clime	 climate
clip	 cut off with shears; fasten; N: something clipped off (as a short extract from film); clasp or fastener
clipper	 sailing vessel built for great speed
clique	 small exclusive group of people
cloister	 monastery or convent
clot	 half-solid lump formed from a liquid (or blood); V.
clout	 great influence (especially political or social); hard blow with fist
clown	 act stupidly; play the fool; N.
cloying	 distasteful (because excessive); excessively sweet or sentimental; V. cloy: become unpleasant through too much sweetness or excess
coagulate	 congeal; thicken; clot; N. coagulant
coalesce	 combine; fuse; N. coalescence
coalition	 partnership; league; union of separate political parties
coax	 persuade by flattery
coda	 concluding section of a musical or literary composition
coddle	 treat gently; indulge excessively; pamper; mollycoddle; baby; cook in water just below boiling point; Ex. coddled eggs
codicil	 supplement to the body of a will; later addition to a will
codify	 arrange (laws or rules) as a code; classify; N. code: system of words used instead of ordinary writing; collection of laws, rules, established social customs
coercion	 use of force to get someone to object; compelling; V. coerce
coeval	 living at the same time as; existing during the same period of time; contemporary; of the same age
cog	 tooth projecting from a wheel
cogent	 convincing
cogitate	 think over; ponder
cognate	 having a common origin; related linguistically; allied by blood; similar or akin in nature; Ex. cognate languages; N.
cognitive	 having to do with knowing or perceiving related to the mental processes; N. cognition: the mental process of knowing
cognizance	 knowledge; ADJ. cognizant; having knowledge; aware
cohabit	 live together
cohere	 stick together
cohesion	 tendency to keep together
cohorts	 group of people who share some common quality; armed band; a group of between 300 and 600 soldiers under one commander (in the ancient Rome)
coiffure	 hairstyle
coin	 make coins; invent or fabricate (a word or phrase); N. coinage: word or phrase recently invented
coincidence	 the chance occurrence, at the same time, of two or more seemingly connected events; V. coincide: happen at the same time; be in agreement; CF. coincident; CF. coincidental
colander	 utensil with perforated bottom used for straining
collaborate	 work together; cooperate treasonably with the enemy
collage	 work of art put together from fragments
collate	 examine and compare in order to verify authenticity; arrange in order (the sheets of a book before they are bound)
collateral	 security given for loan; ADJ: secondary; descended from the same person but through different sons or daughters
collation	 a light meal; collating
collected	 composed; calm; self-possessed
colloquial	 pertaining to conversational or common speech; informal; N. colloquialism: colloquial expression
colloquy	 informal discussion; conversation
collusion	 conspiring in a fraudulent scheme to cheat or deceive others; V. collude
colossal	 huge
colossus	 gigantic statue; person or thing of great size or importance
coma	 deep prolonged unconsciousness caused by disease, poison, or a severe blow
comatose	 in a coma; extremely sleepy
combustible	 easily burned; N. CF. combustion
comeback	 retort; quick clever reply; return to former status
comely	 attractive; agreeable; having a pleasing appearance
comestible	 something fit to be eaten
comeuppance	 deserts; well-deserved punishment or misfortune; rebuke
comity	 courtesy; civility; Ex. comity of nations
commandeer	 take (private property) for military use without needing permission or giving payment; draft for military purposes
commemorate	 honor the memory of; serve as a memorial to; Ex. commemorate the 100th anniversary/those who died in the war
commemorative	 remembering; honoring the memory of; Ex. commemorative stamp
commensurate	 equal in extent; of the same size
commiserate	 feel or express pity or sympathy for
commodious	 spacious and comfortable
commonplace	 ordinary; N: something ordinary or common; trite remark
commonwealth	 nation governed by the people; republic; people of a nation
communal	 held in common; public; of a group of people; of a commune
commune	 small (often rural) community whose members share work and income; V: exchange thoughts or feelings; Ex. commune with nature
compact	 agreement; contract; ADJ: tightly packed; firm; brief; concise; Ex. compact statement
compartment	 one of the parts into which an enclosed space is divided
compassion	 sympathy for the suffering of others; ADJ. compassionate
compatible	 harmonious; in harmony with; able to exist together
compelling	 overpowering; irresistible in effect; holding one's attention; that compels one to do something; Ex. a compelling adventure story; V. compel
compendium	 brief, comprehensive summary; ADJ. compendious
compensatory	 making up for; repaying
compilation	 listing of information in tabular or book form; compiling
compile	 assemble; gather; accumulate; make (a report or a book) from facts and information found in various places; Ex. compile a dictionary
complacency	 self-satisfaction; smugness; ADJ. complacent
complaisant	 trying to please; obliging; willing to please others
complement	 complete; consummate; make perfect; N.
complementary	 serving to complete something
compliance	 conformity in fulfilling requirements; readiness to yield; disposition to yield to others; V. comply
compliant	 readily acting in accordance with a rule, order, or the wishes or others; yielding; comforming to requirements
complicity	 participation; involvement (in a questionable act or a crime)
component	 element; ingredient
comport	 bear one's self; behave; Ex. comport oneself; N. comportment
compost	 mixture of decaying organic matter used as fertilizer; V: put or make compost
composure	 mental calmness
compound	 combine; produce by combining; increase; make worse by adding to or increasing; exacerbate; Ex. compound an error; ADJ: consisting of two or more parts; N: combination of two or more parts; area enclosed by a wall containing a group of buildings;
comprehend	 include; understand
comprehensive	 broad; including a lot or everything; thorough; inclusive
compress	 force into less space; squeeze; contract; put into fewer words; N: thick mass of cloth pressed to part of the body to stop bleeding or swelling, reduce fever, etc.
comprise	 include; consist of
compromise	 adjust or settle by making mutual concessions; endanger the interests or reputation of; put into danger, disrepute, or a dishonorable position; Ex. compromise one's principle; N.
compulsion	 compelling; strong desire that is difficult to control; irresistible impulse
compulsive	 resulting from compulsion
compulsory	 obligatory; that must be done
compunction	 remorse; strong uneasiness caused by guilt
compute	 reckon; calculate
concatenate	 link as in a chain
concave	 hollow; curved inwards; OP. convex
concede	 admit; acknowledge as being true (often reluctantly); yield; grant; Ex. concede a goal
conceit	 vanity or self-love; too high opinion of one's own value; extravagant metaphor (in poetry)
concentric	 having a common center
conception	 beginning; forming of an idea; fertilization; V. conceive: form an idea in the mind; devise; become pregnant; CF. inception
concerted	 mutually agreed on; done together by agreement; Ex. concerted effort; CF. in concert: working together
concession	 an act of yielding; conceding; something conceded; point, right, etc. given unwillingly; privilege of maintaining a business in a certain place; Ex. oil concessions in the North sea; CF. concessionaire
conciliatory	 reconciling; soothing; V. conciliate: reconcile; soothe; win the friendly feelings (by removing anger)
concise	 brief and compact
conclave	 private secret meeting
conclusive	 decisive; ending all debate
concoct	 prepare by mixing or combining; make up in concert; devise (something false) so as to deceive; Ex. concoct an elaborate excuse for being late; N. concoction
concomitant	 that which accompanies; Ex. Deafnes is a frequent concommitant of old age; ADJ: existing or happening together with something else
concord	 harmony; accord
concordat	 formal agreement
concur	 agree; coincide; happen at the same time
concurrent	 happening at the same time; in agreement
condescend	 (derog.) bestow courtesies with a superior air; descend to the level of one considered inferior
condign	 adequate; (of punishment) severe and well deserved
condiments	 seasonings; spices
condole	 express condolences; N. condolence: sympathy for someone who has experienced great sorrow
condone	 overlook; forgive; give tacit approval; excuse
conducive	 helpful; contributive; V. conduce; Ex. conduce to/towards
conduit	 aqueduct; passageway for fluids
confidant(confidante)	 trusted friend (to whom one tells one's secret)
confide	 tell in confidence (to a person one trusts); be confident about
confidence	 self-assurance; calm unworried feeling based on a strong belief in one's abilities; strong belief in the ability of a person or plan; trust or faith in a person or thing; something confided; secret; Ex. confidence in your ability; Ex. I'm telling yo
confidential	 spoken or written in secret; trusted with private matters; Ex. confidential secretary
confine	 shut in an enclosed space; restrict; keep within limits; N. confinement
confiscate	 seize; take possession of (private property) by official order (usu. as a punishment); commandeer
conflagration	 great fire
confluence	 flowing together; the place where two rivers flow together; crowd; gathering together
conformist	 person who uncritically conforms to the customs of a group; OP. nonconformist: one who does not conform to accepted beliefs of norms
conformity	 harmony; agreement with established rules or customs; similarity; Ex. behave in conformity with; V. conform: be similar; act in agreement; comply; Ex. conform to the rule; CF. conformance
confound	 confuse; puzzle
congeal	 freeze; coagulate
congenial	 pleasant; friendly; in agreement with one's tastes and nature; Ex. congenial weather
congenital	 existing at birth
conglomerate	 corporation made up of several different companies in diversified fields; mass of various material gathered together; rock consisting of small stones held together by clay; V.
conglomeration	 mass of material sticking together
congruence	 correspondence of parts; harmonious relationship; CF. congruity
congruent	 in agreement; harmonious; corresponding; coinciding exactly; CF. congruous
conifer	 pine tree (usu. evergreen); cone-bearing tree; ADJ. coniferous; CF. deciduous; CF. evergreen
conjecture	 surmise; guess; V.
conjugal	 pertaining to marriage
conjure	 cause to appear by magic; summon (a devil or a spirit) by magical power; practice magic (esp. by very quick movement of the hands); evoke; conjure up: bring into the mind; Ex. The magician conjured a rabbit out of his hat.
connivance	 pretense of ignorance of something wrong; assistance; permission to offend; V. connive: feign ignorance (of a wrong); cooperate secretly in an illegal action; conspire
connoisseur	 person competent to act as a judge of art, etc. (whose judgments are respected); a lover of an art
connotation	 suggested or implied meaning of an expression; V. connote
connubial	 pertaining to marriage or the matrimonial state
consanguineous(consanguine)	 having a common ancestor
consanguinity	 kinship; relationship by birth
conscientious	 scrupulous; through and careful; Ex. conscientious worker
conscript	 draftee; person forced into military service; V.
consecrate	 dedicate; sanctify; declare as sacred; Ex. consecrate one's life to helping the poor
consensus	 general agreement; opinion reached by a group
consequential	 self-important; significant; consequent; following as a result; Ex. consequential air; CF. subsequent
conservatory(conservatoire)	 school of the fine arts (especially music or drama); glass-enclosed area; CF. conservancy
consign	 send to a person or place for sale; deliver officially; entrust; put into the care of another; set apart (for a special purpose); N. consignment; CF. consignor, consignee
consistency	 absence of contradictions; uniformity; degree of thickness or firmness; Ex. consistency of thick cream; CF. viscous
console	 lessen sadness or disappointment; give comfort; allay the sorrow of; N. consolation
consolidation	 unification; process of becoming firmer or stronger; V. consolidate: merge; strengthen
consonance	 harmony; agreement
consonant	 harmonious; in agreement; N.
consort	 associate with; keep company; N: husband or wife (or a ruler)
conspiracy	 treacherous plot; secret plan against the law (by two or more people)
conspire	 take part in a conspiracy; (of events) work together; combine; Ex. Events conspired to produce great difficulties.
consternation	 great shock; dismay
constituency	 voters represented by an elected official; district so represented; group of supporters (or constituents)
constituent	 supporter; voter; member of a constituency; component
constitution	 constituting; system of laws; composition of something; physical makeup or structure of a person; Ex. men with strong constitutions
constraint	 restraint; compulsion; repression of feelings; reticence; V. constrain: hold back; restrain; compel; oblige; confine forcibly; imprison
construe	 explain; interpret; Ex. construe her silence as meaning that she agreed; CF. misconstrue
consummate	 complete; V.
contagion	 infection (by contact); ADJ. contagious; CF. infectious: that can be passed by infection in the air
contaminate	 pollute
contempt	 scorn; disdain; ADJ. contemptuous; CF. contemptible
contend	 struggle; compete; assert earnestly; state strongly
contention	 assertion; claim; thesis; struggling; competition
contentious	 quarrelsome; controversial; likely to cause arguments
contest	 dispute; argue about the rightness of; compete for; try to win; Ex. contest the election results; Ex. contest a seat in Parliament; N.
context	 writings preceding and following the passage quoted; circumstance in which an event occurs
contiguous	 adjacent to; touching upon
continence	 self-restraint; sexual chastity; sexual abstinence; voluntary control over bladder and bowel functions; ADJ. continent
contingent	 dependent on something uncertain or in the future; conditional; happening by chance; accidental; N: a group of soldiers, ships to a larger force; CF. contingency: future event that may or may not occur; possibility; Ex. prepare for every contingency
contortions	 twistings; distortions; V. contort: twist violently out of shape; CF. contortionist
contraband	 illegal trade; smuggling; smuggled goods; ADJ.
contravene	 contradict; oppose; violate (a rule, law, or custom); N. contravention
contrite	 penitent; repentant; N. contrition
contrivance	 something contrived; machine or apparatus; clever deceitful plan; scheme
contrive	 invent or fabricate in a clever way (by improvisation); manage; Ex. contrive to attract his attention
contrived	 unnatural and forced; artificial; not spontaneous; Ex. The ending was rather contrived.
controvert	 oppose with arguments; attempt to refute; contradict; ADJ. controversial; N. controversy
contumacious	 stubborn and disobedient; resisting authority (esp. disobedient to an order made by a court)
contusion	 bruise
conundrum	 riddle; difficult problem
convene	 come together; assemble; call to meet; Ex. convene the council
convention	 social or moral custom; established practice; formal meeting; international agreement
conventional	 ordinary; typical; not nuclear; Ex. conventional weapons
converge	 approach; tend to meet; come together
conversant	 familiar with; having knowledge of
converse	 opposite; ADJ.
convert	 one who has adopted a different religion or opinion; V: change into another form; (persuade to) adopt a particular religion or belief
convex	 curving outward
conveyance	 vehicle; transfer; act of conveying; Ex. public conveyance
conviction	 judgment that someone is guilty of a crime; strongly held belief
convivial	 pleasantly merry; festive; joyous; gay; characterized by joviality; jovial
convoke	 call together; Ex. convoke Parliament; N. convocation
convoluted	 coiled around; twisted; involved; complicated; intricate; complex; N. convolution: twist; one of the convex folds of the surface of the brain
convulsion	 violent uncontrollable shaking movement (caused by illness); V. convulse; ADJ. convulsive
copious	 plentiful
coquette	 flirt; flirtatious woman; woman who tries to attract the admiration of men without sincere feelings; V.
cordial	 warmly friendly; gracious; heartfelt; Ex. cordial welcome
cordon	 extended line of men or fortifications to prevent access or egress; V.
cornice	 projecting molding on building (usually above columns or pillars);
cornucopia	 horn (or horn-shaped container) overflowing with fruit and grain; symbol of abundance; horn of plenty
corollary	 natural consequence (which naturally follows from something else)
coroner	 public official who investigates any death thought to be of other than natural causes
corporeal	 bodily (rather than spiritual); of a bodily form; material; tangible
corpulent	 very fat; N. corpulence
corpus	 collection (of writings or information); Ex. the corpus of Shakespear's works; Cf. corpse
corpuscle	 red or white cell in the blood
correlate	 either of the correlated things; V.
correlation	 mutual relationship
corroborate	 confirm; support; strengthen
corrode	 destroy or wear away gradually by chemical action (over a long period)
corrosive	 eating away by chemicals or disease; (of language) fierce
corrugated	 wrinkled; ridged
cosmic	 pertaining to the universe; vast
coterie	 group that meets socially; select circle; close group of people with shared interests
countenance	 approve; support; tolerate; Ex. countenance his rude behavior; N: face; appearance
countermand	 cancel; revoke (an order)
counterpart	 thing that completes another; things very much alike; thing that has the same purpose in a different system
coup	 highly successful action or sudden attack; coup(s) d'\'etat; CF. coup de gr\^ace: deathblow or shot which kills
couple	 join; unite; OP. uncouple
courier	 messenger
court	 attempt to gain; seek; woo; risk; behave so as to invite; attempt to gain the favor of by attention; Ex. court disaster
covenant	 binding agreement between two groups or people; compact; V: enter into a covenant; promise
covert	 secret; hidden; implied; OP. overt
covetous	 avaricious; desirous of (someone else's possessions); V. covet: desire eagerly (someone else's possessions)
cow	 terrorize; intimidate
cower	 shrink quivering as from fear; cringe
coy	 shy (flirtatiously); showing a (pretended) lack of self-confidence; modest; coquettish; CF. job offer
cozen	 cheat; hoodwink; swindle
crabbed	 sour; bad-tempered; peevish; difficult to read as handwriting
craft	 skill (esp. with one's hands); skill in deceiving people; guile; ADJ. crafty: cleverly deceitful; cunning
crass	 very unrefined; grossly insensible; crude and undiscriminating; Ex. crass behavior
crave	 desire; want intensely
craven	 cowardly
credence	 belief
credential	 evidence concerning one's authority; written proof of a person's position; Ex. The new ambassador presented his credentials to the court.
credo	 creed
credulity	 belief on slight evidence; gullibility; naivet\'e; ADJ. credulous
creed	 system of religious or ethical belief
creep	 move with body close to the ground; move stealthily or slowly; N.
cremate	 incinerate (a corpse); N. crematory, crematorium
crescendo	 increase in the volume or intensity as in a musical passage; climax; CF. crescent
crest	 top (as of a hill or wave); showy feathers on the head of a bird
crestfallen	 dejected; dispirited
crevice	 crack; fissure
cringe	 shrink back as if in fear; cower
crinkle	 wrinkle
criteria	 standards used in judging; CF. criterion
crochet	 make (a piece of needlework) by looping thread with a hooked needle; N. CF. crotchet
crone	 hag; ugly old woman
cross	 bad-tempered; showing ill-humor; angry
crossbreed	 hybridize; N: hybrid; CF. interbreed; CF. inbreed
crotchety	 (of someone old) eccentric; odd; whimsical; bad-tempered; N. crotchet: odd or whimsical notion
crust	 hard outer covering (as of earth or snow)
crux	 essential or main point; Ex. the crux of the problem; ADJ. crucial: of deciding importance
crypt	 secret recess or vault usually used for burial; underground room (under a church)
cryptic	 mysterious; hidden; secret
cubicle	 small chamber used for sleeping or work
cue	 word or signal (as in a play to prompt another actor's speech or entrance); reminder or hint; V: give a cue to
cuisine	 style of cooking; Ex. French cuisine
culinary	 relating to cooking or kitchen
cull	 pick out from others (to kill the weakest members); reject; select; collect (information); N.
culmination	 highest point; climax; V. culminate in: reach the highest point in; end in; Ex. a series of minor clashes culminating in war
culpable	 deserving blame; blameworthy
culprit	 one guilty of a crime
culvert	 artificial channel for water; drain crossing under a road
cumbersome	 heavy and awkward to carry or wear; burdensome; Ex. cumbersome parcel/uniform
cumulative	 growing by addition; accumulative
cunning	 clever in deceiving; sly; N: cleverness in deceiving; deceit
cupidity	 greed (for wealth); CF. cupid; CF. Cupid
curator	 superintendent; manager (in charge of a museum or a library)
curb	 chain or strap used with a bit to restrain a horse; something that checks; V: check; restrain
curfew	 regulation requiring all people to leave the streets at stated times; signal (as a bell) announcing the hour of a curfew
curmudgeon	 churlish, miserly individual; bad-tempered old person
cursive	 (of writing) flowing; running; having the successive letters joined
cursory	 casual; hastily done with little attention to detail
curtail	 shorten; reduce
cynical	 skeptical or distrustful of human motives; N. cynicism; CF. cynic: person who believes all people are motivated by selfishness
cynosure	 object of general attention; person or thing that is a center of attention; CF. Ursa Minor