earmark	 set aside (money or time) for a particular purpose
earn	 gain for the performance of service or labor; gain (something that one deserves); deserve
earthly	 of this earth; terrestrial; worldly; not divine; possible; Ex. no earthly reason
earthy	 unrefined; coarse; of earth; Ex. earthy remarks; OP. ethereal
ebb	 (of the tide) recede; lessen; diminish; N. OP. flow: rise of tide
ebullient	 showing excitement; overflowing with enthusiasm; boiling; N. ebullience; N. ebullition: state of boiling
eccentric	 irregular; odd; unconventional; whimsical; bizarre; not concentric
eccentricity	 oddity; idiosyncrasy
ecclesiastic	 ecclesiastical; pertaining to the church; N: minister; priest; cleric; clergyman
eclectic	 selective; composed of elements drawn from disparate sources; selecting individual elements from a variety of sources; N. eclecticism
eclipse	 darken; extinguish; outshine; surpass; cause an eclipse
ecliptic	 path of the sun and the planets
ecologist	 person concerned with the interrelationship between living organisms and their environment; person concerned with the detrimental effects of human civilization on the environment; CF. ecology
economy	 efficiency or conciseness in using something; thrifty management of resources
ecosystem	 ecological community together with its environment
ecstasy	 rapture; very strong feeling of joy and happiness; any overpowering emotion; ADJ. ecstatic: causing or experiencing ecstasy
eddy	 swirling current of water, air, etc.; V.
edict	 decree (especially one issued by a sovereign); official command
edifice	 building (of imposing size)
edify	 instruct; correct morally
eerie	 weird; causing fear because strange
efface	 rub out; remove the surface of
effective	 effectual; producing a strong response; striking; in operation; in effect; Ex. effective speech/photograph
effectual	 able to produce a desired effect; valid
effectuate	 effect; produce; achieve; Ex. effectuate a reconciliation
effeminate	 having womanly traits
effervescence	 inner excitement or exuberance; showing high spirits; emitting bubbles forming inside; bubbling from fermentation or carbonation; ADJ. effervescent; V. effervesce
effete	 having lost one's original power; barren; worn out; exhausted
efficacy	 power to produce desired effect; ADJ. efficacious: effectual
effigy	 dummy; likeness of a person made of wood, paper, or stone; Ex. burn an effigy of the President
effluvium	 noxious(harmful) smell
effrontery	 rudeness without any sense of shame; shameless boldness; presumptousness; nerve; cheek
effulgent	 shining brightly; brilliant
effusion	 pouring forth; unrestrained outpouring of feeling; V. effuse: pour out; ADJ. effusive: pouring forth; gushing
ego	 one's opinion of oneself; self-esteem
egoism	 excessive interest in one's self; belief that one should be interested in one's self rather than in others; selfishness; ADJ. egoistic, egoistical
egotism	 tendency to speak or write of oneself excessively; conceit; self-importance
egotistical	 egotistic; excessively self-centered(egocentric); self-important; conceited
egregious	 notorious; conspicuously bad or shocking
egress	 exit; opening for going out; act of going out; OP. ingress
ejaculation	 exclamation; abrupt ejection (to discharge sperm); V. ejaculate
elaborate	 work out carefully; add more detail or information; ADJ.
elaboration	 addition of details; intricacy
elastic	 able to spring back into shape; quick to recover (as from disappointment); able to adapt to change; Ex. elastic plans; N: elastic material
elated	 filled with excited joy and pride; overjoyed; in high spirits; joyful and proud; Ex. elated crowd; V. elate; N. elation
elegy	 poem or song expressing lamentation (for the dead); ADJ. elegiacal, elegiac
elevation	 elevated position; altitude; height; flat upright side of a building; angle made by pointing a gun; Ex. The elevation of her style is much admired; Ex. front elevation of the house
elicit	 draw out fact or information (by discussion or from someone)
elixir	 cure-all; panacea; something invigorating
ellipsis	 omission of words from a text; mark used to indicate an omission (when the meaning can be understood without them); PL. ellipses
elliptical	 elliptic; oval; of an ellipse; containing an ellipsis; ambiguous either purposely or because key words have been left out
elope	 run away secretly with the intention of getting married
eloquence	 expressiveness; persuasive speech; ADJ. eloquent: movingly expressive; expressing ideas well so that the hearers can be influeneced
elucidate	 explain; make clear; clarify; enlighten; CF. lucid
elusive	 evasive; not frank; baffling; hard to grasp, catch, or understand; V. elude: escape from; escape the understanding or grasp of; Ex. elude the hunter; Ex. His name eludes me.
elysian	 relating to paradise; blissful
Elysium	 place or condition of bliss
emaciated	 thin and wasted (from hunger or illness)
emanate	 issue forth; come out
emancipate	 set free; liberate
emasculate	 weaken; castrate
embargo	 ban on commerce or other activity
embark	 commence; go on board a boat; begin a journey
embed(imbed)	 enclose; place in something; fix firmly in a surrounding mass
embellish	 adorn; ornament; enhance as a story (by adding fictitious details)
embezzlement	 taking for one's own use in violation of trust; stealing (of money placed in one's care)
embitter	 make bitter; fill with painful or bitter feelings; make sad and angry; Ex. He was embittered by many disappointments.
emblazon	 ornament richly (a shield or flag); N. emblazonment
embody	 give a bodily form to; incorporate; include
emboss	 produce a design in raised relief; decorate with a raised design
embrace	 hug; clasp with the arms; adopt or espouse; accept readily; encircle; include; Ex. embrace the cause/socialism; Ex. all-embracing; CF. brace; CF. bracelet
embroider	 decorate with needlework; ornament (a story) with fancy or fictitious details; embellish
embroil	 throw into confusion; involve in strife, dispute, or quarrel; entangle; CF. imbroglio
embryonic	 undeveloped; rudimentary; N. embryo: organism in the early stage of development
emend	 correct (usually a text); N. emendation: correction of errors; improvement
emetic	 substance causing vomiting; ADJ.
eminent	 rising above others; high; lofty; distinguished; Ex. eminent position
emissary	 agent (sent on a mission to represent another); messenger
emollient	 soothing or softening remedy (for the skin); ADJ.
emolument	 salary; payment for an office; compensation
empathy	 ability to identify with another's feelings, ideas, etc.; identification with and understanding of another's feelings; V. empathize; CF. sympathy
empirical	 based on experience
emulate	 imitate; rival; try to equal or excel (through imitation)
enact	 make (a bill) into law
enamored	 in love; Ex. enamored of his own beauty; V. enamor: inspire with love
encipher	 encode; convert a message into code; put into cipher
encircle	 surround
enclave	 territory enclosed within an alien land
encomiastic	 praising; eulogistic; N. encomium: very high praise; eulogy
encompass	 surround; include; Ex. His activities encompass publishing and computers.
encroachment	 gradual intrusion; Ex. I resent all these encroachments on my valuable time; V. encroach: take another's possessions or right gradually or stealthily; intrude; Ex. encroach on/upon
encumber	 burden; N. encumbrance
endear	 make beloved; Ex. endear her to everyone; ADJ. dear: loved; cherished; high-priced
endearment	 fond word or act; expression of affection
endemic	 prevailing among a specific group of people or in a specific area or country; peculiar to a particular region or people; CF. pandemic
endorse	 approve; support; write one's signature on the back of; N. endorsement; CF. dorsal
endue	 provide with some quality; endow
enduring	 lasting; surviving; V. endure: bear (pain or suffering) for a long time; remain alive (in spite of difficulties); last; survive
energize	 invigorate; give energy to; make forceful and active
enervate	 weaken; take away energy from
enfranchise	 admit to the rights of citizenship (especially the right to vote); CF. franchise
engage	 attract; employ; hire; pledge oneself; confront; fight; enter into confliction; interlock; lock together; participate; N. engagement: agreement to marry; arrangement to meet someone or to do something; battle
engaged	 employed; busy; betrothed; involved in conflict
engaging	 charming; attractive
engender	 cause; produce; give rise to
engross	 occupy fully; absorb
engulf	 surround and swallow up
enhance	 increase; make greater (as in value, reputation, or usefulness); improve
enigma	 puzzle; mystery; ADJ. enigmatic: obscure; puzzling
enjoin	 command; order; forbid
enlist	 (cause to) join the armed forces; obtain (help, sympathy, or support)
enliven	 make lively or spirited; animate
enmity	 ill will; hatred; hostility
ennui	 boredom; listlessness and dissatisfaction resulting from lack of interest; CF. annoy
enormity	 hugeness (in a bad sense); excessive wickedness; Ex. enormity of the crime; ADJ. enormous
enrapture	 please intensely; fill with rapture and delight
ensconce	 settle comfortably; place comfortably (in a secure place)
ensue	 follow (as a result)
entail	 make necessary; require; necessitate; involve; limit the inheritance of (property) to a specified succession of heirs; Ex. entail A on/upon B
enterprise	 willingness to take new ventures; initiative; business organization; plan (that is difficult or daring); Ex. their latest enterprise to sail round the world in a small boat
enterprising	 full of initiative; showing enterprise
enthrall	 capture; enslave; captivate; hold the complete attention of (as if magic); hold spellbound
entice	 lure; persuade to do (something wrong); attract; tempt
entity	 real being
entomology	 study of insects
entourage	 group of attendants; retinue; CF. surround
entrance	 put under a spell(condition caused by magical power); carry away(fill with strong feeling) with emotion; put into a trance; fill with delight
entreat	 plead; ask earnestly
entree(entr\'ee)	 entrance; a way in; right to enter; main dish of a meal; Ex. entree into the exclusive circle
entrepreneur	 businessperson (who assumes the risk of a business venture); contractor; ADJ. entrepreneurial
enumerate	 list; mention one by one
enunciate	 announce; proclaim; utter or speak, especially distinctly; pronounce clearly; articulate; Ex. This theory was first enunciated by him.
environ	 enclose; surround; N. environs: surrounding area (as of a city)
eon(aeon)	 long period of time; an age; longest division of geologic time containing two or more eras
epaulet(epaulette)	 ornament worn on the shoulder (of a uniform, etc.)
ephemeral	 short-lived; fleeting
epic	 long heroic poem, novel, or similar work of art (celebrating the feats of a hero); ADJ: (of stories or events) resembling an epic; grand
epicure	 connoisseur of food and drink; gourmet; ADJ. epicurean; CF. Epicurus
epicurean	 believing that pleasure is good and suffering is bad and should be avoided; N.
epigram	 witty thought or saying, usually short
epilogue	 short speech at conclusion of dramatic work
episodic	 (of a story or play) loosely connected; made up of separate and loosely connected parts; N. episode: incident in the course of an experience
epistemologist	 philosopher who studies the nature of knowledge; N. epistemology
epitaph	 inscription in memory of a dead person (as on a tombstone)
epithet	 word or phrase characteristically used to describe a person or thing; descriptive phrase to characterize a person (often contemptous)
epitome	 perfect example or embodiment; brief summary; Ex. epitome of good manners; V. epitomize: make an epitome of; be an epitome of; embody
epoch	 period of time
equable	 tranquil; of even calm temper; (of temperature) steady; uniform
equanimity	 calmness of temperament; composure
equestrian	 rider on horseback; ADJ.
equilibrium	 balance of opposing forces; balance of the mind; equanimity
equine	 resembling a horse; Ex. equine face
equinox	 period of equal days and nights; the beginning of spring and autumn; Ex. vernal/autumnal equinox; ADJ. equinoctial
equipoise	 balance; balancing force; equilibrium
equitable	 fair; impartial; OP. inequitable
equity	 fairness; justice; OP. inequity
equivocal	 (of words or statements) ambiguous; intentionally misleading; (of behavior) questionable; OP. unequivocal
equivocate	 use equivocal language to deceive people; lie; mislead; attempt to conceal the truth; N. equivocation
erode	 eat away; wear away gradually by abrasion; Ex. The sea erodes the rocks.
erotic	 pertaining to passionate love or sexual love
errant	 wandering (esp. in search of adventure); straying from proper moral standards; Ex. knight-errant
erratic	 odd; irregular in movement or behavior; unpredictable
erroneous	 mistaken; wrong; incorrect
erudite	 (of a person or book) learned; full of learning; scholarly; N. erudition
escapade	 prank; flighty conduct; reckless adventure that disobeys rules
eschew	 avoid habitually; Ex. eschew alcoholic drinks
esoteric	 hard to understand; known only to the chosen few, esp. initiates; N. esoterica
espionage	 spying
espouse	 adopt; support (an idea or aim); marry; N. espousal
esteem	 respect; value; judge; N.
estimable	 (of a person) worthy of esteem; admirable; deserving esteem; possible to estimate
estranged	 separated; alienated; V. estrange: alienate (people in a family); N. estrangement
ethereal	 like a spirit or fairy; unearthly light; heavenly; unusually refined; Ex. She has an ethereal beauty; CF. ether: upper air
ethnic	 relating to races
ethnology	 study of humankind; study of the different races of human beings; CF. anthropology
ethos	 underlying character of a culture, group, etc.; character or ideas peculiar to a specific person, group, or culture; Ex. the company ethos
etymology	 study of word parts; study of the origins of words
eugenic	 pertaining to the improvement of race; N. eugenics: study of hereditary improvement of the human race
eulogistic	 praising; full of eulogy
eulogy	 expression of praise, often on the occasion of someone's death; V. eulogize
euphemism	 mild expression in place of an unpleasant one; ADJ. euphemistic
euphony	 sweet sound; ADJ. euphonious
euphoria	 feeling of exaggerated or unfounded(ungrounded; baseless) well-being; feeling of great happiness or well-being (when unreasonable); ADJ. euphoriaric
euthanasia	 mercy killing
evanescent	 fleeting; vanishing; soon disappearing; V. evanesce
evasive	 not frank; trying to hide the truth; eluding; evading; V. evade: avoid (a duty or responsibility) or escape from by deceit
evenhanded	 impartial; fair
eventual	 happening at last as a result; Ex. eventual victory
evince	 show clearly
evocative	 tending to call up (emotions, memories)
evoke	 call forth (memory or feeling); Ex. That old film evoked memories of my childhood; N. evocation
ewe	 female sheep
exacerbate	 worsen; aggravate; embitter
exact	 demand and obtain by force; Ex. exact a promise from him; N. exaction
exacting	 extremely demanding; Ex. exacting standard of safety
exalt	 raise in rank or dignity; praise highly; inspire; Ex. exalt the imagination; ADJ. exalted; N. exaltation
exasperate	 vex; annoy or make angry (by testing the patience)
except	 exclude; N. exception: objection; exclusion; ADJ. exceptional: unusual; of unusually high quality
exceptionable	 objectionable; likely to cause dislike; offensive; CF. unexceptionable: entirely acceptable
excerpt	 selected passage (written or musical) taken from a longer work; V.
exchequer	 treasury; Ex. Chancellor of the exchequer
excise	 cut away; cut out; N: government tax on good produced and used inside a country; N. excision
exclaim	 cry out suddenly; N. exclamation; ADJ. exclamatory
excoriate	 scold with biting harshness; censure strongly; strip the skin off
exculpate	 clear from blame or guilt
execrable	 very bad; detestable
execrate	 curse; express abhorrence for; detest
execute	 put into effect; carry out; kill as a lawful punishment; N. execution
executioner	 person administering capital punishment
executive	 person having administrative authority; one branch of government executing laws; ADJ: relating to executing
executor	 person designated to execute the terms of a will;
exegesis	 explanation, especially of biblical(of the bible) passages
exemplary	 serving as a model; outstanding; Ex. exemplary punishment/behavior; N. exemplar: typical example; model
exemplify	 show by example; furnish an example; serve as an example of; Ex. His pictures exemplify that sort of painting.
exempt	 not subject to a duty or obligation; free from a duty; V.
exertion	 effort; expenditure of much physical work; V. exert oneself: make a great effort
exhale	 breathe out; OP. inhale
exhilarating	 invigorating and refreshing; cheering; V. exhilarate: make cheerful and excited; Ex. exhilarated by the ride in the sports car
exhort	 urge (by strong argument or advice); Ex. The general exhorted his men to fight bravely; N. exhortation
exhume	 dig out of the ground; remove from a grave
exigency	 urgent situation; ADJ. exigent
exiguous	 small in amount; minute
existential	 pertaining to existence; pertaining to the philosophy of existentialism
exodus	 departure (of a large number of people)
exonerate	 acquit; exculpate; free from blame or guilt
exorbitant	 (of costs or demands) excessive; exceeding reasonable bounds
exorcise	 drive out evil spirits
exotic	 not native; from another part of the world; strange; intriguingly unusual; Ex. exotic flower/dress
expansive	 (of a person) outgoing and sociable; broad and extensive; able to increase in size
expatiate	 talk at length; speak or write in detail
expatriate	 exile; someone who has withdrawn from his native land; V: exile; banish; leave one's country
expedient	 suitable (for a particular purpose although not necessarily morally correct); practical; politic(prudent); N: something expedient
expedite	 hasten; make go faster
expeditious	 done with speed; quick; N. expedition
expenditure	 payment or expense; expending; something expended; output; Ex. receipt for the expenditure; Ex. expenditure of all the energy
expertise	 specialized knowledge (in a particular field); expert skill
expiate	 make amends for (a sin)
expletive	 meaningless word; interjection; profane oath; swear-word
explicate	 explain in detail; interpret; clarify; CF. explicable
explicit	 totally clear; definite; outspoken
exploit	 make use of, sometimes unjustly; N. exploitation
expos\'e	 public revelation of something discreditable
expository	 explanatory; serving to explain; N. exposition: explaining; exhibition
expostulation	 protest; remonstrance; reasoning with someone to correct or dissuade; V. expostulate
exposure	 risk, particularly of being exposed to disease or to the elements; unmasking; act of laying something open; Ex. exposure of governmental corruption
expound	 explain
expropriate	 take possession of (often for public use and without payment)
expunge	 cancel; remove a word or name (from a book or list); erase
expurgate	 clean; remove offensive parts of a book
exquisite	 delicate; very finely made; extremely beautiful; Ex. exquisite piece of jewelry
extant	 (of something written or painted) still in existence
extemporaneous	 not planned; impromptu; extempore
extenuate	 weaken; mitigate; lessen the seriousness of (bad behavior)
extirpate	 root up; uproot; destroy completely
extol	 praise very highly; glorify
extort	 wring from; get money by threats, etc.; obtain by force or threats; CF. extortionate: exorbitant
extradition	 surrender of prisoner by one state to another; Ex. extradition treaty; V. extradite
extraneous	 not essential; irrelevant; superfluous; external; coming from the outside; Ex. extraneous details/noise/to the subject
extrapolation	 projection; conjecture; V. extrapolate: infer (unknown information) from known information
extricate	 free from an entanglement or difficulty; disentangle
extrinsic	 external; not essential or inherent; extraneous; OP. intrinsic
extrovert	 person interested mostly in external objects and actions
extrude	 force or push out; thrust out; shape (plastic or metal) by forcing through a die
exuberance	 overflowing abundance; joyful enthusiasm; flamboyance; lavishness; ADJ. exuberant: high-spirited and lively; growing abundantly and strongly
exude	 flow out slowly; discharge (gradually); give forth; N. exudation
exult	 rejoice