fabricate	 build; lie; make up (a story) in order to deceive; Ex. fabricate the whole story; CF. fabric: underlying structure; Ex. fabric of society
facade(fa\c{c}ade)	 front or face (of building); superficial or false appearance
facet	 small plane surface (of a gem(precious stone)); a side
facetious	 joking (often inappropriately); unserious; humorous
facile	 easily accomplished; ready or fluent; superficial; not deep; Ex. facile solution to a complex problem; Ex. facile speaker; N. facility: ability to do something easily and well; ease in doing resulting from skill or aptitude; something that facil
facilitate	 help bring about; make less difficult
facsimile	 copy
faction	 party; clique (within a large group); dissension
factious	 inclined to form factions; causing dissension
factitious	 artificial; produced artificially; sham; false; Ex. factitious tears
factotum	 handyman; person who does all kinds of work; CF. do everything
faculty	 mental or bodily powers; teaching staff
fake	 not genuine; N: one that is not genuine; impostor; sham; V: counterfeit; Ex. fake the results of the experiment/the signature
fallacious	 false; based on a fallacy; misleading; N. fallacy: false idea or notion; false reasoning; Ex. popular fallacy; Ex. fallacy of the argument
fallible	 liable to err
fallow	 (of land) plowed but not sowed (to improve the quality); uncultivated
falsify	 make (something written) false by changing
falter	 hesitate; weaken in purpose or action; walk or move unsteadily through weakness; N.
fanaticism	 excessive zeal; extreme devotion to a belief or cause; N. fanatic; ADJ. fanatic
fancied	 imagined; unreal
fancier	 breeder or dealer of animals; one who has a special interest, as for raising specific plant or animal
fanciful	 whimsical; visionary; imaginary; produced by imagination; Ex. fanciful scheme
fancy	 imagination (of a whimsical or fantastic nature); capricious liking; V: imagine; be fond of; ADJ. decorative; elaborate
fanfare	 call by bugles or trumpets; showy display; spectacular public display
farce	 broad comedy; mockery; humorous play full of silly things happening; ADJ. farcical
far-fetched	 too improbable to be believed; implausible; Ex. far-fetched story
fashion	 give shape to; make; Ex. fashion the pot out of clay
fastidious	 difficult to please; squeamish; fussy; finicky
fatalism	 belief that events are determined by forces or fates beyond one's control; ADJ. fatalistic; CF. fatal: causing death
fathom	 comprehend; investigate; determine the depth of; N. unit of measurement for the depth of water
fathomless	 too deep to be measured or understood; unfathomable
fatuous	 smugly and unconsciously foolish; inane; silly; N. fatuity, fatuousness
fauna	 animals of a period or region; CF. flora
favoritism	 display of partiality toward a favored person
fawning	 courting favor by cringing and flattering; V. fawn: exhibit affection as a dog; seek favor or attention by obsequiousness
faze	 disconcert; dismay; embarrass
feasible	 practical; able to be carried out; practicable
feature	 distinctive part of the faces (as the eyes or mouth); features: overall appearance of the face; prominent or distinctive quality; prominent article; film; V: make prominent
febrile	 feverish
fecundity	 fertility; fruitfulness; ADJ. fecund: very productive of crops or young
feebleminded	 deficient in intelligence; very stupid
feign	 pretend
feint	 trick; shift; sham blow; feigned attack to draw away defensive action; V.
felicitous	 (of a word or remark) apt; suitably expressed; well chosen
felicity	 happiness; appropriateness (of a remark, choice, etc.); quality of being felicitous
feline	 of a member of the cat family; N.
fell	 cut or knock down (a tree or a person); bring down (with a missile)
felon	 person convicted of a grave crime; CF. felony: serious crime
feral	 (of an animal) not domestic; wild
ferment	 agitation; commotion(noisy and excited activity); unrest (of a political kind); V. produce by fermentation; undergo fermentation; cause (a state of trouble)
fermentation	 chemical reaction that splits complex organic compounds; unrest; agitation
ferocious	 fierce; violent; N. ferocity
ferret	 drive or hunt out of hiding; hunt with ferrets; drive out (as from a hiding place); expel; uncover or discover by searching; Ex. ferret out the secret; N. small fierce animal which catches rats and rabbits by going into their holes
fertile	 producing many young, fruits, or seeds; (of land) producing good crops; V. fertilize
fervent	 ardent; zealous; hot
fervid	 ardent; zealous; hot
fervor	 glowing ardor; intensity of feeling; quality of being fervent or fervid; zeal; intense heat
fester	 rankle; produce irritation or resentment; (of a cut or wound) generate pus or rot; Ex. His insult festered in my mind for days.
festive	 joyous; celebratory; relating to a feast or festival
fete(f\^ete)	 honor at a festival; celebrate or honor with a feast; N. (outdoor) festival or feast; CF. feast
fetid(foetid)	 malodorous; foul
fetish(fetich)	 object believed to have spiritual powers; object of excessive attention or reverence; CF. fetishism
fetter	 shackle; restrict the freedom of; N. chain or shackle for the foot of a prisoner; CF. foot
feud	 bitter prolonged quarrel (usually between two peoples or families); V. CF. Romeo and Juliet; CF. feudal, feudalism
fiasco	 total failure; CF. bottle
fiat	 command; arbitrary order; Ex. presidential fiat; CF. let it be done
fickle	 changeable (in affections or friendship); faithless
fictitious	 imaginary; non-existent; purposely invented to deceive; untrue; Ex. fictitious name/boyfriend; CF. fictional
fidelity	 loyalty; accuracy
fiend	 evil spirit; devil
figment	 invention; something invented; imaginary thing; Ex. figment of your imagination
figurative	 not literal but metaphorical; using a figure(impression) of speech
figure	 written symbols; number; amount represented in numbers; outline or silhouette of a thing or human body; person (well-known); impression; diagram; pattern; group in a dance; Ex. figure of speech; V. calculate with numbers; adorn with figures; app
figurine	 small ornamental statuette(very small statue)
filch	 steal (things of small value)
filial	 pertaining to or befitting a son or daughter; Ex. filial respect
filibuster	 block legislation or prevent action in a lawmaking body by making very slow long speeches; N; freebooter
filigree	 delicate ornamental lacelike metalwork
filing	 particle removed by a file
filth	 dirty matter; ADJ. filthy
finale	 conclusion; concluding part
finery	 beautiful clothes for a special occasion
finesse	 delicate skill; V: handle with finesse
finicky	 too particular; fussy; difficult to please; too concerned with unimportant details or quality; Ex. finicky about her food
finish	 surface texture; completeness of execution
finished	 properly made and complete; Ex. finished product/performance
finite	 limited
firebrand	 piece of burning wood; hothead; troublemaker; person who stirs up trouble
fissure	 crevice; crack
fit	 sudden outburst of an illness or feeling; convulsion caused by epilepsy
fitful	 spasmodic; intermittent; irregular
flaccid	 flabby; lacking firmness; weak; Ex. flaccid muscles
flag	 droop; grow feeble; decline in vigor or strength; ADJ. flagging; CF. unflagging
flagrant	 conspicuously wicked, bad, or offensive; blatant; outrageous
flail	 beat with or as if with a flail; move wildly; thresh grain by hand; strike or slap; toss about; N: threshing tool consisting of a stick swinging from the end of a long handle
flair	 talent
flamboyant	 ornate; highly elaborate; richly colored; ostentatious; showy; CF. flame
flashy	 showy; gaudy; giving a momentary brilliance
flaunt	 display ostentatiously; Ex. ``Honey, if you've got it, flaunt it !''
flay	 strip off skin; plunder; remove the skin from; criticize harshly
fleck	 spot; mark with flecks; N: small mark or spot
fledgling(fledgeling)	 inexperienced; N: young bird that has acquired wing feathers and is learning to fly; inexperienced person
fleece	 wool coat of a sheep; V: shear the fleece from; rob by a trick; swindle; plunder
fleet	 fast; rapid; N. ADJ. fleeting: passing quickly; ephemeral
flick	 light stroke as with a whip; V: move with a light quick blow; strike with a light quick blow (as from a whip); Ex. flick the switch
flicker	 burn unsteadily or fitfully; move waveringly; N: flickering movement or light; brief sensation; Ex. flicker of excitement
flighty	 (esp. of a woman's behavior) capricious; often changing, esp. from one lover to another; impulsive
flinch	 hesitate; shrink back (in fear of something unpleasant); Ex. She did not flinch in the face of danger.
flip	 send (something) spinning, often into the air, by striking with a light quick blow; turn over; Ex. flip over
flippant	 lacking proper seriousness; Ex. flippant remarks about death; N. flippancy
flirt	 behave in a way that attracts (sexual) attention; deal triflingly with; N: one (or woman) given to flirting; ADJ. flirtatious
flit	 fly; fly or move lightly or quickly; dart lightly; pass swiftly by; Ex. a bee flitting from flower to flower
floe	 flat mass of floating ice
flora	 plants of a region or era
florescence	 condition or period of flowering
florid	 ruddy; (of a complexion) reddish; flowery; very ornate; CF. rose
flotsam	 drifting wreckage
flounder	 struggle and thrash about; proceed clumsily or falter (as in water, mud, snow, etc.); proceed in confusion
flourish	 grow well; prosper; make sweeping gestures; wave; brandish; Ex. The trees flourished in the sun. N: showy movement or gesture; embellishment or ornamentation (esp. in handwriting)
flout	 reject; mock; show contempt for; scorn; Ex. flout the rules
flowery	 full of flowers; full of ornate expressions
fluctuate	 waver; shift; rise and fall as if in waves; change or vary irregularly
fluency	 smoothness of speech; ADJ. fluent
fluke	 unlikely occurrence; stroke of fortune; accidental stroke of good luck; ADJ. fluky
flush	 redden; blush; flow suddenly and abundantly; wash out by a rapid brief flow of water; N: reddish tinge; blush; brief rush; rush of strong feeling; Ex. flush of pride; ADJ: having surfaces in the same plane; even; blushing
fluster	 confuse; make nervous and confused; N.
fluted	 having vertical parallel grooves (as in a pillar); V. flute: make long parallel inward curves in; N. flute: long rounded groove incised on the shaft of a column
flutter	 (of a bird with large wings) wave (the wings) lightly, rapidly, and irregularly; vibrate rapidly or erratically; fly by waving quickly; flitter; N.
flux	 flowing; series of changes; fluctuation; Ex. in a state of flux
fodder	 coarse food for cattle, horses, etc.; feed for livestock; CF. food
foible	 small weakness of character; slight fault; CF. feeble
foil	 defeat; frustrate; prevent from being successful; thwart; CF. fail
foist	 insert improperly; impose upon another by coercion; palm off; pass off as genuine or worthy; CF. fist
foliage	 masses of leaves; CF. defoliate
foment	 stir up; incite; instigate; promote the growth of (something evil or unpleasant)
foolhardy	 rash; reckless; foolishly daring
foppish	 vain about dress and appearance; N. fop: man who takes too much interest in his clothes and appearance
foray	 raid; sudden raid or military advance; V.
forbearance	 patience; forgiveness; V. forbear: refrain from (in a generous and forgiving way); be patient; Ex. forbear to send him to prison
ford	 place where a river can be crossed on foot; V.
forebears(forbears)	 ancestors
foreboding	 premonition of evil; feeling of coming evil; V. forebode: be a warning of (something unpleasant)
forensic	 suitable to debate or courts of law; of or used in legal proceedings and the tracking of criminals; Ex. forensic science/medicine
forerunner	 predecessor; one that comes before and indicates the approach of another
foreshadow	 give an indication beforehand; be a sign of (what is coming); portend; prefigure
foresight	 ability to foresee future happenings; prudence in providing for the future
forestall	 prevent by taking action in advance
forfeit	 something surrendered as punishment for a crime or breach of contract; V: lose as a forfeit; N. forfeiture
forge	 counterfeit; reproduce fraudulently; form by heating in a forge and hammering into shape; move with a sudden increase of speed or power; Ex. forged ahead in the last two years; N: furnace where metals are heated
forgo(forego)	 give up; do without
forlorn	 sad and lonely; wretched; desolate
formality	 ceremonious quality; ceremonious adherence to rules; something done just for form's sake; Ex. mere formality
formidable	 menacing; arousing fear; threatening; difficult to defeat; Ex. formidable foe/question
forsake	 desert; abandon; renounce
forswear	 renounce under oath; abandon; make a solemn promise to give up; CF. abjure
forte	 strong point or special talent in a person's character
forthcoming	 happening in the near future; ready; willing to help; Ex. No answer was forthcoming.
forthright	 straightforward; direct; frank
fortitude	 bravery; courage; strength of mind
fortuitous	 accidental; by chance; N. fortuity
forum	 public square of an ancient Roman city; public place for open discussion; court of law
forward	 presumptuous or bold
foster	 rear; bring up (for a certain period only); encourage; promote the development of (feelings or ideas); Ex. help foster friendly relations; ADJ: giving parental care although not related by blood; Ex. foster parents
foul	 very bad or disagreeable; very dirty; Ex. foul smell/flavor/temper/language/air/deed/weather/means; N. act against the rules; V. make or become foul; commit a foul
founder	 person who establishes (an organization or business)
fracas	 brawl(noisy quarrel or fight) in which a number of people take part; melee
fractious	 unruly; peevish; cranky; bad-tempered; Ex. fractious horse
frail	 weak; N. frailty
franchise	 right or privilege granted by authority; right to vote; license to sell a product in a particular territory
frantic	 wild; distraught as from fear or worry; Ex. frantic with fear
fraudulent	 cheating; deceitful; Ex. fraudulent means; N. fraud: deception; swindle
fraught	 filled (with something unpleasant); full; Ex. fraught with danger and difficulties; CF. freight
fray	 brawl; fight; V: wear away or unravel by rubbing; have loose threads developing; cause to become worn out (a person's temper or nerves); CF. rub
freebooter	 pirate or plunderer who makes war in order to grow rich
frenetic(phrenetic)	 frenzied; frantic
frenzied	 madly excited; N. frenzy: violent wild excitement
fresco	 painting on wet plaster (usually fresh)
fret	 be annoyed or vexed; Ex. fret over your poor grades; N: irritation of mind; ADJ. fretful
friction	 clash or conflict in opinion; rubbing against
frieze	 ornamental horizontal band on a wall
frigid	 intensely cold; cold in manner; Ex. frigid zone
fringe	 decorative edge of hanging threads; edge
frisk	 move about playfully; froric; ADJ. frisky: playful
fritter	 waste (time or money on unimportant things)
frivolous	 lacking in seriousness; flippant; self-indulgently carefree; unworthy of serious attention; relatively unimportant; trivial
frock	 long loose garment (worn by monks)
frolic	 play and jump about happily; frisk; Ex. frolicking young lambs
frolicsome	 prankish; gay; playful; merry; frisky
frond	 fern leaf; palm or banana leaf
fructify	 bear fruit; produce fruit
frugality	 thrift; economy; ADJ. frugal: practicing economy; costing little; inexpensive
fruitful	 producing results; profitable; prolific; producing in abundance
fruition	 bearing of fruit; fulfillment; realization; Ex. come to/be brought to fruition
frustrate	 thwart; defeat; prevent from accomplishing a purpose
fuddle	 make stupid or confused as with alcholic drink; N. in a fuddle: confused
fugitive	 fleeting or transitory; lasting only a short time; roving(wandering); running away or fleeing as from the law; N: one who flees; Ex. fugitives at large
fulcrum	 support on which a lever rests or pivots
fulminate	 thunder; explode; issue a severe denunciation
fulsome	 disgustingly excessive; offensively flattering; Ex. fulsome praise/expressions of admire
fumble	 move the fingers and hands awkwardly (in search of something); mishandle or drop a ball that is in play; bungle; botch; spoil by mishandling; N.
functional	 made for practical use only (without decoration); functioning; Ex. functional modern furniture; CF. functionalism
functionary	 official (who performs a particular function)
fundamental	 basic; primary; essential
funereal	 sad; solemn; suitable for a funeral
furor	 frenzy; great anger and excitement; CF. fury
furrow	 long shallow trench made by a plow; deep wrinkle in the skin; V.
furtive	 stealthy; quiet and secret (trying to escape notice); sneaky; Ex. furtive glance
fusillade	 simultaneous firing or outburst (of missiles, questions, etc.)
fusion	 union; coalition; V. fuse
fuss:	 trouble or worry over trifles; make nervous; pay too much attention to; N: needless concern or worry (about a trivial thing); anxious nervous condition; display of attention; Ex. make a fuss over the baby
fussy	 fastidious; finicky; easily upset
futile	 useless; hopeless; ineffectual