gadfly	 animal-biting fly; irritating person
gaffe	 social blunder
gainsay	 deny
gait	 manner of walking or running; speed
galaxy	 large isolated system of stars, such as the Milky Way; collection of brilliant personalities
gale	 windstorm; gust of wind; emotional outburst (laughters, tears); Ex. gale of laughter
gall	 annoy; exasperate; chafe; N: skin sore caused by rubbing (as on the skin of a horse); exasperation
galleon	 large three-masted sailing ship
galley	 low ship with sails (rowed along by slaves)
gallows	 framework from which a noose is suspended (used for execution by hanging)
galvanic	 of the production of electricity by the action of an acid on a metal; having the effect of an electric shock; Ex. galvanic cell; galvanic effect; CF. Luigi Galvani
galvanize	 stimulate or shock by an electric current; stimulate by shock; shock into action; stir up; coat with rust-resistant zinc by using electricity
gambit	 opening in chess in which a piece is sacrificed; action made to produce a future advantage
gambol	 romp; skip about; leap about playfully; frolic; N.
gamely	 in a spirited manner; with courage; Ex. fight gamely against a superior boxer; ADJ. game
gamut	 entire range
gangrene	 decay of body tissue caused by insufficient blood supply (usually following injury); ADJ. gangrenous
gape	 open widely; open the mouth wide; stare wonderingly with the mouth open; CF. agape
garbled	 mixed up; jumbled; distorted; V. garble: mix up or distort (a message) to such an extent as to make misleading or unintelligible
gargantuan	 huge; enormous; gigantic; CF. the hero of Gargantua and Pantagruel
gargoyle	 waterspout carved in grotesque figures on a building
garish	 overbright in color; unpleasantly bright; gaudy
garner	 gather; store up; amass
garnish	 decorate; add a garnish to; decorate (food or drink) with small items such as lemon slices; N.
garrulous	 loquacious; wordy; talkative; N. garrulity
gastronomy	 art and science of preparing and serving good food; CF. gastronome
gauche	 clumsy (in social behavior); coarse and uncouth
gaudy	 flashy; showy
gaunt	 lean and angular; thin and bony; emaciated; barren
gavel	 hammerlike tool; mallet(wooden hammer) used by a presiding officer or an auctioneer; V.
gawk	 stare foolishly; look in open-mouthed awe
gazette	 official periodical publication; newspaper
genealogy	 record of descent; lineage; ancestry; study of ancestry
generality	 vague statement; general statement which is not detailed; quality of being general; greater part; most; Ex. generality of people
generate	 cause; produce; create
generic	 characteristic of an entire class or species; of a genus
genesis	 beginning; origin
geniality	 cheerfulness; kindliness; sympathy; ADJ. genial: cheerful and good-tempered
genre	 particular variety of art or literature
genteel	 well-bred; elegant; striving to convey an appearance of refinement; Ex. genteel poverty
gentility	 those of gentle birth; high social class; refinement; quality of being genteel
gentle	 kindly; soft; mild; of good family
gentry	 people of standing(rank or position); people of good family or high social position; class of people just below nobility
genuflect	 bend the knee as in worship
genus	 division of animals or plants, below a family and above a species
geriatrics	 medical treatment and care of old age
germ	 earliest form of an organism; seed or bud; something that may develop into something larger or more important; microbe
germane	 pertinent; bearing upon(having connection with) the case at hand; appropriate
germinal	 pertaining to a germ; creative; Ex. germinal idea
germinate	 cause to sprout; sprout
gerontocracy	 government ruled by old people
gerontology	 study of the sociological phenomena associated with old age
gerrymander	 change voting district lines in order to favor a political party; N. CF. Elbridge Gerry + (sala)mander
gestate	 evolve as in prenatal growth; N. gestation: period of development from conception until birth
gesticulation	 motion; gesture; V. gesticulate: make gestures (while speaking)
ghastly	 horrible; terrifying; resembling ghosts; CF. aghast
gibberish	 nonsense; nonsensical or unintelligible talk or writing; babbling
gibe	 mock; make jeering remarks; N: jeering remarks
giddy	 light-hearted; not serious; frivolous; dizzy; causing dizziness; Ex. giddy youth; Ex. giddy climb/height
gild	 cover with a thin layer of gold
gingerly	 very carefully; ADJ.
girth	 distance around something; circumference
gist	 essence; main point; substance
glacial	 like a glacier; of an ice age; extremely cold; Ex. glacial epoch; CF. iceberg
glamor	 compelling charm; ADJ. glamorous
glare	 shine intensely and blindingly; stare fixedly and angrily; N.
glaring	 (of something bad) highly conspicuous; harshly bright; shining intensely and blindingly
glaze	 cover with a thin and shiny surface; apply a glaze to; N: thin, smooth, shiny coating (as for pottery); Ex. unglazed pottery
gleam	 brief flash of light; glow; V.
glean	 gather leavings; gather grain left behind by reapers; gather bit by bit (facts or information) often with difficulty
glib	 fluent (with insincerity or superficiality); facile; slick
glimmer	 shine erratically; twinkle; N: dim or unsteady light; faint indication; Ex. glimmer of hope
glitter	 shine brightly with flashing points of light; Ex. glittering diamond ring; N: sparkling light; attractiveness; glamor; Ex. glitter of the sun on the waves
gloat	 express evil satisfaction; look at or think about with evil satisfaction; view malevolently; Ex. The thief gloated over the stolen jewels.
gloss	 brief explanation note or translation of a difficult expression; V.
gloss_over	 explain away with the intention of deceiving or hiding faults
glossary	 brief explanation of words used in the text
glossy	 smooth and shining; N. gloss: shiny brightness on a surface; superficially attractive appearance; Ex. gloss of good manners
glow	 shine brightly without a flame (as of eyes or metals); show redness and heat (in the face) after hard work or because of strong feelings; N: light produced by a heated body; brilliance of a color
glower	 scowl; glare; look or stare angrily
glut	 overstock; fill beyond capacity (with food); fill to excess; N: oversupply
glutinous	 sticky; viscous; gluey
glutton	 someone who eats too much; ADJ. gluttonous: given to gluttony; greedy; CF. gluttony: habit of eating too much
gnarl	 protruding knot on a tree; V.
gnarled	 twisted
gnome	 dwarf; underground spirit who guards treasure hoards
goad	 urge on; drive with a goad; cause (someone) to do something by continued annoyance; Ex. They goaded him into doing it by saying he was a coward; N: sharp-pointed stick for driving cattle; stimulus; CF. annoy continually
gobble	 eat very quickly
gorge	 stuff oneself (with food); glut; CF. gorgeous: dazzlingly beautiful
gory	 bloody; N. gore: blood (from a wound)
gossamer	 sheer; very light; like cobwebs; N: soft and sheer fabric; cobweb
gouge	 overcharge (with high price); extort from; Ex. gouge the public; CF. usury
gourmand	 epicure; person who takes excessive pleasure in food and drink
gourmet	 connoisseur of food and drink; epicure
gracious	 kind in a generous way (to someone less important)
gradation	 series of gradual stages; degree in such a progression
graduate	 arrange into categories or grades; divide into marked intervals (for use in measurement); Ex. graduated ruler
graduated	 arranged by degrees (of height, difficulty, etc.)
granary	 storehouse for grain
grandeur	 impressiveness; stateliness; majesty
grandiloquent	 (of a person or speech) using high sounding or important-sounding language; pompous; bombastic
grandiose	 affectedly grand; pretentious; high-flown; ridiculously exaggerated; impressive; great in size or scope; grand; Ex. grandiose ideas
granulate	 form into grains or granules; N. granule: grain or particle
graphic	 pertaining to the art of delineating; vividly described
graphite	 black form of carbon used in lead pencils
grapple	 wrestle; come to grips with; take hold of and struggle with; Ex. grapple with the burglar
grate	 make a harsh noise; have an unpleasant effect; shred by rubbing against a rough surface; Ex. grated cheese N: framework of metal bars to hold fuel in a fireplace
gratify	 please; satisfy; Ex. gratify a desire
gratis	 free; without charge; ADJ.
gratuitous	 given freely; unwarranted; uncalled for; done without good reason; Ex. gratuitous comment
gratuity	 n. money given to sb who has done one a service; tip ;
gravity	 seriousness; ADJ. grave
graze	 (of an animal) feed on growing grass; cause (an animal) to feed on grass; scrape (esp. the skin) or touch lightly in passing; brush; Ex. We can't graze the cattle till summer; N: surface wound
gregarious	 sociable; (of an animal) tending to form a group
grievance	 cause of complaint; complaint
grill	 question severely; cook on a grill; broil; N: cooking surface of parallel metal bars
grim	 causing great fear; unrelenting; determined in spite of fear; Ex. grim smile
grimace	 facial distortion to show feeling such as pain, disgust, etc; V.
grisly	 ghastly; horrifying; Ex. grisly remains of the bodies
groom	 man employed to take care of horses; V: make neat and trim; clean and brush (an animal)
groove	 long narrow channel made in a surface to guide the movement of something; Ex. groove of the record
gross	 total; fragrant; clearly wrong; (of people's behavior) coarse; corpulent; Ex. gross insolence/behavior; V: earn as a total amount; N: 12 dozens
grotesque	 fantastic; comically hideous; strange and unnatural (causing fear or amusement)
grotto	 small cavern
grouch	 bad-tempered complaint; person who keeps complaining; V: complain; grumble
grouse	 complain; fuss; grumble; grouch; N: plump chickenlike game bird
grovel	 crawl or creep on ground; remain prostrate; behave in a servile manner
growl	 low, guttural, menacing sound (as of a dog)
grudge	 deep feeling of dislike; Ex. grudge fight; V.
grudging	 unwilling; reluctant; stingy(giving reluctantly)
gruel	 thin liquid porridge
grueling	 exhausting; Ex. grueling marathon race
gruesome	 grisly; horrible
gruff	 rough-mannered; (of a voice) rough; hoarse
grumble	 complain; mutter discontentedly; grouch; N.
grunt	 utter a deep guttural sound (as a pig does); N.
guffaw	 boisterous laughter; V.
guile	 deceit; duplicity; wiliness; cunning; Ex. persuade her by guile
guileless	 without deceit
guise	 outward appearance; costume; Ex. in a new guise
gull	 trick; deceive; hoodwink; N: person who is easily tricked; dupe
gullible	 easily deceived
gush	 (of liquid) pour out in large quantities from a hole; make an excessive display of feeling (without true feeling); Ex. Blood gushed from the wound.
gust	 strong abrupt rush of wind; V. CF. bluster
gustatory	 affecting or relating to the sense of taste
gusto	 eager enjoyment; zest; enthusiasm
gusty	 windy
guy	 cable or chain attached to something that needs to be braced or steadied; CF. guide
gyroscope	 apparatus used to maintain balance, ascertain direction, etc.