habitat	 natural home of a plant or animal; CF. habitation
habituate	 accustom or familiarize; addict
hackles	 hairs on back and neck, especially of a dog; Ex. make someone's hackles rise
hackneyed	 commonplace; trite
haggard	 wasted away; gaunt; Ex. haggard faces of the rescued miners
haggle	 argue about prices (in an attempt to bargain)
hail	 frozen rain drop; V: salute or greet; precipitate hail
halcyon	 calm; peaceful; Ex. halcyon days
hale	 healthy
halfhearted	 exhibiting little interest or enthusiasm
hallowed	 blessed; consecrated; Ex. hallowed ground; V. hallow: set apart as holy
hallucination	 delusion; false idea; false perception of objects with a compelling sense of their reality; objects so perceived; V. hallucinate; ADJ. hallucinatory
halting	 hesitant; faltering; not fluent; Ex. halting steps/voice; V. halt: proceed or act with uncertainty; falter; hesitate; waver; stop
hamper	 obstruct; prevent the free movement of;
handsome	 large in quantity; generous; Ex. handsome reward
hap	 chance; luck
haphazard	 random; by chance; happening in an unplanned manner; Ex. haphazard growth of the town
hapless	 unfortunate; luckless
harangue	 long, passionate, and vehement speech; V.
harass	 annoy by repeated attacks
harbinger	 forerunner (which foreshadows what is to come)
harbor	 give protection (by giving food and shelter); provide a refuge for; hide; keep in mind (thoughts or feelings); Ex. harbor a grudge/criminal; N: place of shelter; refuge
hardy	 (of people or animals) sturdy; robust; (of plants) able to stand inclement(stormy) weather
harping	 tiresome dwelling on a subject; V. harp: dwell on(think or speak a lot about) tediously
harrowing	 agonizing; distressing; traumatic; V. harrow: break up and level (soil) with a harrow; inflict great distress on; agonize; N: farming machine to break up the earth
harry	 harass, annoy, torment (by repeated attacks); raid
hatch	 deck opening; lid covering a deck opening; V: emerge from an egg; produce (young) from an egg
haughtiness	 pride; arrogance; ADJ. haughty
haunt	 (of a spirit) visit (a place); come to mind continually; visit (a place) regularly; frequent; Ex. haunted house; Ex. haunted by his last words; N: place much frequented
haven	 place of safety; refuge; harbor; Ex. tax haven
havoc	 widespread damage; disorder; chaos
hazard	 venture; put in danger; risk; Ex. hazard a guess; N: possible source of danger
hazardous	 dangerous
hazy	 slightly obscure; misty; unclear; N. haze: light mist or smoke; confused state of mind
headfirst	 moving with the head leading; headlong
headlong	 hasty; rash; headfirst; ADV.
headstrong	 willful; stubborn; unyielding; determined to have one's own way; CF. no 'excessive'
healthful	 conducive to good health; Ex. healthful mountain air
healthy	 possessing good health; healthful
heckler	 person who verbally harasses others; V. heckle: verbally harass as with gibes (by interrupting a speaker or speech)
hedonist	 one who believes that pleasure is the sole aim in life; CF. hedonism: practice of living one's life purely for pleasure
heed	 pay attention to; N: close attention
heedless	 not noticing; disregarding
hegemony	 dominance especially of one nation over others
heinous	 atrocious; wicked; hatefully bad; Ex. heinous crime
helm	 steering wheel of a ship; position of control
hem	 surround tightly so that movement is impossible; Ex. hem in; N.
herald	 messenger; sign of something to come; V: announce; proclaim; Ex. unheralded researcher
herbivorous	 grain-eating; CF. herbivore
herd	 group of animals; crowd; one who looks after a herd; Ex. shepherd/goatherd; Ex. herd instinct; Ex. herdsman; V: come together in a herd; look after a herd; Ex. herd cattle
hereafter	 life after death
heresy	 opinion contrary to popular belief; opinion contrary to accepted religion; ADJ. heretical; CF. heretic
hermetic	 concerning alchemy or magic; obscure and mysterious; occult
hermitage	 home of a hermit
herpetologist	 one who studies reptiles; CF. herpetology: branch of zoology that deals with reptiles and amphibians
heterodox	 (of beliefs) against accepted opinion; unorthodox; unconventional
heterogeneous	 dissimilar; mixed; not homogeneous; consisting of dissimilar elements or plants
hew	 cut to pieces with ax or sword; chop; N.
heyday	 time of greatest success or power; prime
hiatus	 gap; pause; gap or interruption in space or time; break
hibernal	 wintry; wintery; of or like winter
hibernate	 sleep throughout the winter; N. hibernation
hide	 skin of an animal
hideous	 repulsive to the sight; ugly; repugnant; Ex. hideous face/scream
hierarchy	 arrangement by rank or standing; authoritarian body divided into ranks; body of persons having authority
hieroglyphic	 picture writing; ADJ.
high-flown	 highly pretentious or inflated
hilarity	 boisterous mirth(merriment; laughter); ADJ. hilarious: full of laughter
hindmost	 furthest behind; farthest to the rear
hindrance	 block; obstacle; V. hinder
hindsight	 understanding the nature of an event after it has actually happened
hinterlands	 back country; inner part of a country; OP. foreland
hireling	 one who serves for hire (usually used contemptuously); one who works solely for compensation; Ex. hireling politician
hirsute	 hairy; having a lot of hair
historic	 important in history; Ex. historic battle
historical	 connected with history; based on events in history (whether regarded as important or not)
histrionic	 theatrical; excessively dramatic or emotional; affected; of actors or acting; N. histrionics: histrionic behavior
hive	 box for bees; V: cause to go in a hive
hoard	 stockpile; accumulate for future use; N: supply stored for future use
hoary	 white with age
hoax	 trick which makes someone take action; practical joke; Ex. hoax mail; V.
holocaust	 destruction by fire; CF. burnt whole; CF. Holocaust
holster	 leather pistol case (that hangs on a belt around the waist)
homage	 honor; tribute; great respect; Ex. pay/do homage to
homely	 not good-looking; unattractive
homeostasis	 tendency of a system or organism to maintain relative stability or internal equilibrium; CF. homeo-: constant; Ex. homeotherm
homespun	 domestic; made at home; spun or woven at home; simple and ordinary; Ex. homespun philosophy
homily	 sermon; tedious moralizing lecture; serious warning; ADJ. homiletic
homogeneous	 of the same kind; uniform in composition throughout
hone	 sharpen (a tool); N: whetstone for sharpening a tool
hoodwink	 deceive; delude
horde	 crowd; swarm
horoscope	 diagram of the positions of stars at a given moment (eg. of a person's birth) used by astrologers
hortatory	 encouraging; exhortive; marked by exhortation; CF. exhort
horticultural	 pertaining to cultivation of gardens; N. horticulture: science or art of cultivating fruits, vegetables, or ornamental plants; CF. agriculture: science or art of farming or growing crops
hostage	 person who is kept as a prisoner by an enemy so that the other side will do what the enemy demands
hostility	 unfriendliness; hatred; enmity; ADJ. hostile
hothead	 person who does things too quickly without thinking; ADJ. hotheaded
hovel	 shack; small wretched house
hover	 hang about; (of birds or aircraft) stay in the air in one place; (of people) wait nearby; stay around one place; waver; be in an uncertain state
hubbub	 confused uproar; loud noise; din
hubris	 arrogance; excessive self-conceit
hue	 color; aspect; Ex. opinions of every hue
hue_and_cry	 outcry; loud cry or clamor; strong protest; Ex. hue and cry against the new rule
hull	 husk; dry outer covering of a seed; frame or body of a ship
humane	 marked by kindness or consideration; kind and compassionate; humanitarian
humanitarian	 one devoted to the promotion of human welfare; CF. humanism
humble	 of low rank or position; modest; having a low opinion of oneself and a high opinion of others; unassuming; not proud; V. humiliate: make humble; cause to feel ashamed or to lose the respect of others
humdrum	 dull; monotonous
humid	 damp; N. humidity
humility	 humbleness of spirit
hummock	 small hill; hillock
humor	 indulge; comply with the wishes of; N. quality that makes something amusing; state of mind; mood; Ex. in a bad humor; Ex. out of humor
humus	 substance or rich soil formed by decaying vegetable matter; CF. soil
hurl	 throw forcefully; shout out violently
hurtle	 crash; rush; move with great speed; Ex. hurtling runaway train
husband	 use sparingly; conserve; save; Ex. husband one's energy; CF. house holder
husbandry	 frugality; thrift; economy; agriculture; farming; Ex. animal husbandry; CF. husbandman
hut	 crude dwelling; shack
hybrid	 mongrel; mixed breed; V. hybridize
hydrophobia	 fear of water; rabies
hygiene	 science and practice of the promotion and preservation of health; ADJ. hygienic: showing careful attention to cleanness (to prevent disease); Ex. hygienic condition
hyperbole	 exaggeration; overstatement; ADJ. hyperbolic: of hyperbole; of a hyperbola
hypercritical	 excessively exacting; too critical (without noticing good qualities)
hypnosis	 induced sleeping state; ADJ. hypnotic; V. hypnotize
hypochondriac	 person unduly worried about his health; worrier without cause about illness; ADJ. CF. hypochondria: neurosis that one is or is becoming ill; CF. abdomen
hypocritical	 pretending to be virtuous; deceiving; N. hypocrisy: profession of beliefs one does not possess; CF. hypocrite
hypothetical	 based on assumptions or hypotheses; supposed; N. hypothesis
hysteria	 excessive or uncontrollable excitement; N. hysteric: person suffering from hysteria; CF. hysterics: attack of hysteria