jab	 poke abruptly with something sharp; punch with short blows
jabber	 chatter rapidly or unintelligibly
jaded	 tired or uninterested by surfeit; fatigued; surfeited; worn out; wearied; Ex. jaded appetite
jargon	 language used by special group; technical terminology; gibberish; nonsensical or incoherent talk
jaundice	 medical condition in which the skin, the white part of the eyes, etc. turn yellow; V: affect with jaundice; affect with prejudice, envy, or hostility; bias
jaundiced	 yellowed; prejudiced (envious, hostile, or resentful) from long and disappointing experience of human affairs; Ex. with a jaundiced eye
jaunt	 trip; short journey
jaunty	 cheerful and pleased with life; lighthearted; animated; easy and carefree; dapper in appearance; Ex. jaunty person/hat
jeopardize	 endanger; imperil; put at risk; N. jeopardy: danger
jest	 playful remark or act; V. act or speak playfully
jetsam	 things thrown from a ship (to lighten the ship)
jettison	 throw overboard (from a ship or plane)
jibe	 agree; be in harmony with; gibe
jingoist	 extremely aggressive and militant patriot; warlike chauvinist; N. jingoism: extreme nationalism
jocose	 given to(having a tendency of) joking
jocular	 said or done in jest or playfully; marked by joking
jocund	 merry
jollity	 gaiety; cheerfulness; ADJ. jolly: merry; gay
jostle	 shove; bump; push against (someone) rather roughly; Ex. jostled by the crowds
jovial	 good-natured; merry; cheerful
jubilation	 rejoicing; great joy
judiciary	 judicial branch of government
judicious	 sound on judgment; wise
jug	 pitcher; container for holding liquids
juggernaut	 irresistible crushing force; overwhelming advancing force that crushes everything in its path
jumble	 mix in a confused way
juncture	 crisis; point in time; joining point; joint; act of joining
junket	 trip especially one taken for pleasure by an official at public expense
junta	 group of persons joined in political intrigue; cabal; group of military officers ruling a country after seizing power (by force)
juridical	 of the law and its administration; CF. judicial: of courts of law; CF. judiciary
jurisdiction	 right and power to apply the law; authority
jurisprudence	 science of law
juxtapose	 place side by side; CF. next