
 
Home
 
Screen Shots
 
Download
 
Buy Now !
 
Comments
 
Articles
 
FAQ 
 
Contact
Links	
Barron GRE word list - L
labile	 likely to change; unstable; Ex. emotionally labile; N. lability
laborious	 demanding much work or care; tedious
labyrinth	 maze
lace	 cord used to draw and tie together two opposite edges (as of a shoe); delicate fabric made of fine threads; V: draw together by tying a lace
laceration	 torn ragged wound; V. lacerate: tear (the skin as with broken glass); wound
lachrymose	 producing tears; tearful
lackadaisical	 lacking interest or effort; lacking purpose or zest; lazy; halfhearted; languid
lackluster	 lacking luster(shine; gloss); dull
laconic	 brief and to the point; using few words; terse
lag	 move or develop more slowly; straggle; Ex. lag behind the rest; N.
laggard	 slow; sluggish; N: one who lags; straggler
lagoon	 shallow body of water or lake near a sea; lake separated from a sea by sandbars or coral reefs
laity	 laypersons; laymen; persons not connected with the clergy
lament	 grieve; express sorrow; N. lamentation
lampoon	 ridicule; N: written attack ridiculing or satirizing a person, group, or institution
lance	 pierce with a lance; cut into; N: spearlike weapon
lancet	 small surgical tool for making incisions
languid	 lacking energy or vitality; weary; sluggish; listless
languish	 lose animation or strength
languor	 lack of physical or mental energy; lassitude; depression
lank	 long and thin; Ex. Lank, gaunt, Abraham Lincoln
lap	 take in food or drink with one's tongue; splash gently; Ex. waves lapping the shore; N: front area from the waist to the knees of a seated person
larceny	 theft; Ex. petit larceny
larder	 pantry; place where food is kept
largess	 generous gift (given to people who do not have enough)
lascivious	 lustful
lassitude	 languor; weariness; listlessness
latch	 fastening or lock consisting of a movable bar that fits into a notch; V: close with a latch
latent	 present but not yet noticeable or active; dormant; hidden; N. latency; CF. potential
lateral	 of or coming from the side
latitude	 freedom from narrow limitations
laud	 praise; N. ADJ. laudable: praiseworthy; ADJ. laudatory: expressing praise
lavish	 liberal; wasteful; generous or wasteful in giving or using; abundant; profuse; great; Ex. decorated lavishly; V. give in abundance
lax	 careless; negligent; not paying enough attention; Ex. lax service
layman	 man who is not a cleric; man who is nonprofessional
leash	 restraining rope fastened to the collar of an animal (to control it); Ex. a dog on a leash
leaven	 add leaven to; cause to rise or grow lighter; enliven; N: agent, such as yeast, that causes dough to rise (by fermentation); element that lightens or enlivens
leave-taking	 farewell or departure
lechery	 gross lewdness; lustfulness; ADJ. lecherous; N. lecher: lecherous man
lectern	 reading desk or stand for a public speaker
leery	 (of someone) suspicious; wary; cautious
leeway	 room to move; margin; latitude; Ex. leeway for the deadline
legacy	 gift made by a will; something handed down from an ancestor
legato	 (of music) played smoothly
legend	 explanatory list of symbols on a map
legerdemain	 sleight(dexterity) of hand; CF. light of hand
legislature	 legislating branch of government; CF. legislate: make laws
leniency	 mildness; permissiveness; ADJ. lenient: not severe in judgment or punishment
leonine	 like a lion
lethal	 deadly
lethargic	 drowsy; dull; N. lethargy: state of sluggishness and inactivity
levee	 earthen or stone embankment to prevent flooding; CF. raise
levitate	 rise and float in the air (especially by magical means); CF. light
levity	 lack of seriousness or steadiness; frivolity; lightness of manner
levy	 impose (a fine); collect (a payment); impose or collect (a tax); Ex. levy a tax on tobacco
lewd	 lustful
lexicographer	 compiler of a dictionary; CF. lexicography: work of compiling a dictionary
lexicon	 dictionary
liability	 drawback; handicap; debts; obligation; responsibility; condition of being liable; ADJ. liable: likely; responsible (for paying)
liaison	 contact that keeps parties in communication; communication between groups; one that maintains communication; go-between; secret love affair; V. liaise: keep a connection
libel	 defamatory written statement; act of writing something that smears a person's character; V. ADJ. libelous
libertine	 debauched person; dissolute or licentious person; rou\'e; CF. free
libidinous	 lustful
libido	 psychic and emotional energy or urges behind human activity; sexual desire
libretto	 text of an opera or oratorio; CF. book
license	 official or legal permission; latitude of action or speech; excessive freedom that causes harm or damage; V.
licentious	 amoral; lewd and lascivious; unrestrained
lien	 legal claim or right on a property
ligneous	 like wood
lilliputian	 extremely small; CF. Lilliput in Gulliver's Travels
limber	 flexible; supple; pliable; V.
limbo	 region near heaven or hell where certain souls are kept; prison (slang); Ex. Purgatory and Limbo
limn	 draw; outline; describe; CF. line ?
limp	 walk lamely; ADJ: lacking firmness; weak
limpid	 crystal clear
lineage	 descent; ancestry
lineaments	 features especially of the face; distinctive shape or contour of the face; CF. line
linger	 loiter or dawdle; be slow in leaving; delay going; continue or persist; be slow to disappear; Ex. The smell lingered for days.
linguistic	 pertaining to language
lionize	 treat (a person) as a celebrity
liquidate	 settle accounts; pay off (a debt); clear up; eliminate; kill or abolish
list	 tilt (as of a ship); lean over (to one side)
listless	 lacking in spirit or energy; languid
litany	 supplicatory prayer; prayer in which the priest calls out and the people replies in the same words
lithe	 flexible; supple; CF. limber
litigation	 lawsuit; N. litigant: one party in a lawsuit; V. litigate
litotes	 understatement for emphasis; Ex. ``not bad(=pretty good)''
litter	 waste material thrown away (as bits of paper scattered untidily); V: cover untidily with scattered litter
livid	 lead-colored; black and blue (as from a bruise); ashen; enraged; extremely angry
loath	 reluctant; unwilling; disinclined; Ex. Romeo and Juliet were both loath for him to go.
loathe	 detest; ADJ. loathsome: arousing loathing; offensive; Ex. loathsome smell
lode	 metal-bearing vein(long deposit of an ore)
loft	 room or space under the roof; attic
lofty	 very high
log	 record of a voyage or flight; record of day-to-day activities; section of a trunk; V.
loiter	 hang about/around; stand idly about; linger
loll	 lounge about
longevity	 long life; long duration
lookout	 act of keeping watch; high place commanding a wide view; person who keeps watch
loom	 appear or take shape (usually in an enlarged, indistinct, or distorted form); Ex. The shadow of the gallows loomed threateningly. N: apparatus for making thread into cloth
lope	 gallop slowly
lopsided	 heavier or larger on one side than the other; Ex. lopsided way of walking
loquacious	 talkative; N. loquacity
lot	 object used in making a determination at random; fate; piece of land
lottery	 contest in which winners are selected in a drawing of lots
lounge	 stand, sit, or lie in a lazy, relaxed way
lout	 clumsy person; ADJ. loutish; CF. from countrysides ?
low	 moo; make the sound of a cow
lubricate	 apply a lubricant to; N. lubricant: substance that reduces friction
lucid	 easily understood; clear; intelligible; N. lucidity
lucrative	 profitable; producing wealth
lucre	 money; profit; Ex. filthy lucre
ludicrous	 laughable; ridiculous; trifling
lugubrious	 mournful; sorrowful
lull	 moment of calm; period of reduced activity; Ex. a lull in the rain; V: cause to become less active; cause to sleep or rest; Ex. lull the opponents into a false sense of security; CF. lullaby
lumber	 move heavily or clumsily; Ex. The bear lumbered through the woods; N: timber
lumen	 unit of light energy (one candle's worth)
luminary	 celebrity (in a specific field); dignitary; object that gives light (as a celestial body)
luminous	 shining (esp. in the dark); issuing light; Ex. luminous paint/road signs
lunar	 pertaining to the moon
lunatic	 insane; Ex. lunatic asylum
lurid	 wild; sensational; graphic; gruesome; horrible; Ex. lurid details of the murder
lurk	 stealthily lie in waiting; slink; exist unperceived
luscious	 pleasing to taste or smell; delicious
lush	 (of a plant or grass) growing very well
lust	 intense sexual desire; intense eagerness; V.
luster	 shine; gloss (of a polished surface)
lustrous	 shining; brilliant; Ex. lustrous hair
luxuriant	 abundant; growing healthily and in large amounts; excessively ornate; rich and splendid; fertile; Ex. luxuriant forests/prose; CF. luxurious, luxuriate
luxuriate	 take pleasure in great comfort