macabre	 gruesome; grisly; ghastly; CF. of death
mace	 ceremonial staff used as a symbol of authority; clublike medieval weapon
macerate	 soften by soaking in liquid; waste away; Ex. macerate powdered wood to make paper
Machiavellian	 crafty; double-dealing; of the political doctrine of Machiavelli, which holds that craft and deceit are justified in pursuing political power
machinations	 evil schemes or plots; schemes or plots to achieve an evil end; V. machinate
maculated	 spotted; stained; CF. immaculate
madrigal	 pastoral song; song for several singers without instruments
maelstrom	 violent whirlpool; violent or tublent situation; CF. stream
magisterial	 authoritative; imperious; commanding; of a magistrate; Ex. magisterial study of Roman law; Ex. magisterial manner
magistrate	 official with power to administer the law
magnanimity	 generosity; ADJ. magnanimous: generous
magnate	 person of prominence or influence; powerful or influential person (in business or industry); Ex. oil magnate
magniloquent	 boastful; pompous
magnitude	 greatness (in size or extent); extent
maim	 mutilate; injure lastingly; disable; cripple; Ex. maimed for life
makeshift	 temporary expedient or substitute (in the case of urgent need); Ex. makeshift shelter
maladroit	 clumsy; not skillful; awkward; bungling
malady	 illness
malaise	 uneasiness; vague feeling of ill health (without any particular pain or appearance of disease)
malapropism	 comic misuse of a word; CF. Mrs. Malaprop
malapropos	 inappropriate; ADV.
malcontent	 person dissatisfied with existing state of affairs; discontented person; ADJ: discontented
malediction	 curse
malefactor	 evildoer; criminal
maleficient	 doing evil; N. maleficience
malevolent	 wishing evil; exhibiting ill will; N. malevolence
malfeasance	 wrongdoing; misconduct (by a public official)
malicious	 hateful; spiteful; expressing malice; N. malice: desire to harm others; spite
malign	 speak evil of; bad-mouth(criticize spitefully); defame; ADJ: harmful; Ex. malign influence
malignant	 tending to cause death; highly injurious; aggressively malevolent; Ex. malignant tumor
malingerer	 one who feigns illness to escape duty; V. malinger: feign illness to avoid work
malleable	 (of a metal) capable of being shaped by pounding(beating); pliable; (of someone) impressionable(easily influenced); easily controlled; tractable
malodorous	 foul-smelling
mammal	 vertebrate animal whose female suckles its young
mammoth	 gigantic; enormous
manacle	 restrain; handcuff; N.
mandate	 order; charge; authoritative command; power to govern another country; power to given to a government; region under administration; V: give a mandate to; place under a mandate; Ex. mandated territory
mandatory	 obligatory; compulsory; of a mandate
maneuver(manoeuver)	 strategic military or naval movement (done for training purposes); carefully planned process; stratagem; V: carry out a military maneuver; use maneuvers in gaining an end
mange	 skin disease (esp. of domestic animals) marked by loss of hair
mangle	 tear or cut to pieces; mutilate or disfigure; Ex. badly mangled bodies
mangy	 shabby; wretched; suffering from mange; of bad appearance
maniacal	 raging mad; insane; N. maniac: insane person; CF. mania: disorder of the mind; intense enthusiasm
manifest	 evident; visible; obvious; V: show plainly
manifestation	 outward demonstration; manifesting; indication of the presence of something; Ex. manifestation of his pronounced musical bent
manifesto	 public declaration of principles; statement of policy
manifold	 many in number or kind; numerous; varied
manipulate	 operate with one's hands; control or play upon (people, forces, etc.) artfully; maneuver; Ex. how to manipulate publicity and men; ADJ. manipulative
mannered	 affected; not natural; Ex. mannered way of speech
mannerism	 distinctive behavioral trait; affected style in art (according to a set of styles)
mantle	 loose sleeveless outer garment; cloak; something that covers or envelops; the layer of the earth between the crust and the core
manumit	 emancipate; free from slavery or bondage
mar	 spoil the appearance of
maraud	 move in search of plunder; Ex. marauding army
margin	 border; room; allowance beyond what is needed; Ex. margin of safety
marginal	 of a margin; barely within a limit; Ex. marginal effect/writing ability
marital	 pertaining to marriage
maritime	 bordering on(adjacent to) the sea; nautical; of the ships or the sea; Ex. Maritime Provinces
marked	 noticeable; targeted for vengeance or attack; Ex. marked improvement/man
maroon	 leave helpless on a deserted island or coast; ADJ. red brown
marred	 damaged; disfigured; V. mar: spoil; disfigure
marrow	 soft fatty tissue that fills most bone cavities and is the source of blood cells
marshal	 put in order; guide ceremoniously to the correct place; Ex. marshal the children into the museum; N: military officer; official
marsupial	 one of a family of mammals that nurse their offspring in a pouch(pocket of skin or leather); CF. kangaroo, opossum, wombat
martial	 warlike; of war; Ex. martial art/law
martinet	 strict disciplinarian; person who demands total obedience to rules and orders; CF. Jean Martinet
martyr	 one who voluntarily suffers death for his or her religion or cause; great sufferer; Ex. martyr to his rheumatism
mash	 crush into mash; convert into mash; N: mixture of ground grain and nutrients fed to livestock and fowl
masochist	 person who enjoys his own pain; CF. masochism
mason	 one who builds or works with stone or brick; N. masonry: work of a mason; stonework or brickwork
masquerade	 wear a mask or disguise; pretend; N: costume party or ball at which masks are worn; pretense; disguise
mass	 Christian religious ceremony; CF. Mass: ceremony of the Eucharist
masticate	 chew
mat	 not shiny; matte; having a dull finish; N: flat piece of material used as a floor covering; V.
materialism	 preoccupation with physical comforts and things; excessive regard for worldly concerns (rather than spiritual matters)
maternal	 motherly; N. maternity: motherhood
matin\'ee(matinee)	 dramatic or musical performance given in the afternoon
matriarch	 woman who rules a family or larger social group
matriculate	 enroll (in college or graduate school); CF. matrix
matrimony	 state of being married
matrix	 point of origin; array of numbers or algebraic symbols; mold or die; Ex. the matrix of Western civilization
maudlin	 effusively sentimental
maul	 handle roughly; batter; injure by beating; Ex. mauled by his overexcited fans; N: heavy long-handled hammer
mausoleum	 monumental tomb; large stately tomb; CF. Mausolos
mauve	 pale purple
maverick	 rebel; nonconformist (in a group)
mawkish	 mushy(sentimental) and gushy; icky-sticky sentimental; excessively and objectionably sentimental
maxim	 proverb; truth pithily stated
mayhem	 injury to body; crime of willfully maiming or crippling a person; violent disorder; Ex. mayhem in the zoo; CF. maim
meager	 scanty; inadequate
mealymouthed	 indirect in speech (when something unpleasant must be said); hypocritical; evasive
meander	 wind or turn in its course; follow a winding or turning course; move aimlessly and idly
meddlesome	 interfering; V. meddle: interfere
mediate	 settle a dispute through the services of an outsider; act as an intermediary; produce by mediating; Ex. mediate a cease-fire
mediocre	 ordinary; commonplace; neither good nor bad
meditation	 reflection; thought; V. meditate
medium	 element that is a creature's natural environment; nutrient setting in which microorganisms are cultivated; appropriate occupation or means of expression; channel of communication; compromise; middle position between extremes; intervening substan
medley	 mixture
meek	 submissive; patient and long-suffering
megalomania	 mania for doing grandiose things; mental disorder characterized by delusions of wealth, power, or importance
melancholy	 gloomy; morose; blue; N. ADJ. melancholic; CF. melancholia
melee	 fight
mellifluous	 (of words or a voice) sweetly or smoothly flowing; melodious; having a pleasant tune
memento	 token; reminder of the past; keepsake; Ex. memento of your visit
memoir	 memoirs; autobiography; biography
memorial	 something, such as a monument or holiday, intended to honor the memory of a person or event; ADJ: commemorative
memorialize	 commemorate
menace	 threat; V: threaten
menagerie	 collection of wild animals on exhibition; zoo
mendacious	 lying; habitually dishonest; N. mendacity
mendicant	 beggar; ADJ: living as a beggar
menial	 suitable for servants; lowly; mean; N: someone who does menial work (esp. servant in a house)
mentor	 counselor; teacher
mercantile	 concerning trade or merchants
mercenary	 motivated solely by money or gain; N.
mercurial	 capricious; quick and changing; fickle; containing the element mercury; Ex. mercurial temper; CF. mood
meretricious	 flashy; tawdry; attractive on the surface but of no real value; Ex. metericious argument/jewel; CF. prostitute
merger	 combination (of two business corporations); act of merging
merit	 deserve; ADJ. meritorious: deserving reward or praise
mesmerize	 hypnotize; N. mesmerism; CF. Franz Mesmer
metallurgical	 pertaining to the art of removing metals from ores; N. metallurgy: science that deals with extracting metals from ores
metamorphosis	 change of form; Ex. metamorphosis of caterpillar to butterfly; V. metamorphose: change by metamorphosis
metaphor	 implied comparison; CF. simile
metaphysical	 pertaining to speculative philosophy; of metaphysics; N. metaphysics: branch of philosophy that examines the nature of reality
mete	 measure; distribute; administer; Ex. mete out justice/punishment
meteoric	 like a meteor; swift; momentarily brilliant; Ex. meteoric rise to fame; N. meteor
meter	 arrangement of words in the form of poetry (by accentual rhythm)
methodical	 systematic; N. method: systematic method of procedure
meticulous	 excessively careful (with great attention to detail); painstaking; scrupulous
metrical	 metric; written in the form of poetry; Ex. metrical translation of Homer
metropolis	 large city
mettle	 courage (to continue bravely in spite of difficulties); spirit; ADJ. mettlesome
miasma	 swamp gas; heavy vaporous atmosphere often emanating from decaying matter; pervasive corrupting influence; noxious atmosphere or influence
microcosm	 small representative world; world in miniature; Ex. microcosm of English society
migrant	 changing its habitat; wandering; Ex. migrant birds/workers; N: one that migrates
migratory	 wandering; V. migrate: move from one region and settle in another; move periodically from one region to another
milieu	 social environment; means of expression; Ex. feel out of one's milieu; Ex. His proper milieu is watercolor.
militant	 combative; bellicose; N.
militate	 work against; Ex. militate against the chances of promotion; CF. serve as a soldier
militia	 army composed of ordinary citizens rather than professional soldiers
millennium	 thousand-year period (as in the New Testament); hoped-for period of happiness and prosperity
mime	 pantomime(act without dialogue); mimicry; mimer; V: mimic; pantomime
mimicry	 imitation
minatory	 menacing; threatening
mincing	 affectedly dainty(delicate); V. mince: cut (esp. meat) into very small pieces; walk with exaggerated primness; walk in an unnatural way, taking little short steps; Ex. The actor minced across the stage; CF. mincemeat; CF. mincer
mingle	 mix together in close association
miniature	 small model; small painting; ADJ: small
minion	 servile dependent; obsequious follower
minuscule(miniscule)	 extremely small
minute	 extremely small; CF. minutes: official record of the proceedings at a meeting
minutiae	 petty or trivial details; CF. minutia
mirage	 unreal reflection; optical illusion
mire	 entangle; stick in swampy ground; stick or sink in mire; N: bog; deep mud; Ex. sucked deeper into the mire
mirth	 merriment; laughter
misadventure	 mischance; ill luck; Ex. death by misadventure
misanthrope	 one who hates mankind; misanthropist
misapprehension	 error; misunderstanding; V. misapprehend
miscellaneous	 made up of a variety of parts
miscellany	 mixture of writings on various subjects; collection of various items
mischance	 ill luck
mischief	 behavior (of children) causing trouble with no serious harm; damage; harm; Ex. mischief to the crops; ADJ. mischievous: causing mischief; playfully troublesome
misconduct	 immoral behavior; bad management; V.
misconstrue	 interpret incorrectly; misinterpret; misjudge
miscreant	 wretch; wrongdoer; villain; Ex. kindness to the miscreant; CF. believe
misdemeanor	 minor crime; misdeed; wrongdoing
miserly	 stingy; mean
misgivings	 doubts
mishap	 unfortunate accident
misnomer	 wrong or improper name; incorrect designation
misogamy	 hatred of marriage
misogynist	 hater of woman; CF. misogyny
missile	 object to be thrown or projected
missive	 letter; written statement; CF. sent
mite	 very small object or insect-like creature; small coin
mitigate	 appease; moderate; make or become less in force or intensity
mnemonic	 pertaining to memory; assisting the memory; N: device, such as as formula or rhyme, used as a mnemonic aid
mobile	 movable; not fixed; N. mobility
mock	 ridicule; deride; imitate often in derision
mode	 prevailing style; current fashion; manner; way of doing something; Ex. in the latest mode; Ex. simple mode of life
modicum	 limited quantity; small amount; Ex. He does not have a modicum of sense; CF. moderate
modish	 fashionable; conforming to the current fashion
modulate	 tone down in intensity; change the intensity or tone of; regulate; change from one musical key to another; Ex. modulate from E to G
mogul	 powerful person; Ex. oil moguls; CF. Mogol, Moghul; CF. Mongolian
molecule	 the smallest particle (one or more atoms) of a substance that has all the properties of that substance
mollify	 soothe an angry person
mollycoddle	 pamper; coddle; baby; indulge excessively
molt(moult)	 periodically shed or cast off hairs or feathers (for replacement by a new growth)
molten	 melted; Ex. molten lava
momentous	 very important; N. moment; CF. momentary
momentum	 quantity of motion of a moving body; impetus; moving force
monarchy	 government under a single ruler
monastic	 related to monks or monasteries; removed from worldly concerns
monetary	 pertaining to money
mongrel	 plant or animal (esp. a dog) of mixed breed; ADJ.
monochromatic	 having only one color
monochrome	 painting in only one color; ADJ.
monogram	 design composed of one or more initials of a name; V.
monograph	 scholarly article
monolithic	 solidly uniform; unchangeable; unyielding; N. monolith: large block of stone
monotheism	 belief in one God
monotony	 sameness leading to boredom; monotonousness; ADJ. monotonous; CF. monotone
monumental	 massive; impressively large; built as a monument
moodiness	 fits of depression or gloom; ADJ. moody: given to changeable moods; subject to periods of depression; gloomy CF. mood: | state of mind or emotion
moratorium	 legal delay of payment or action; Ex. declare moratorium on the building of new houses
morbid	 given to unwholesome or unhealthy thought; moody; characteristic of disease; Ex. morbid curiosity; N. morbidity; CF. disease
mordant	 biting; sarcastic; stinging; (apprec.) incisive; cutting; Ex. mordant pen/wit
mores	 conventions; moral standards; moral customs
morgue	 mortuary; place where bodies are kept before burial or cremation
moribund	 dying; at the point of death; CF. death
morose	 ill-humored; sullen; sullenly melancholy
mortar	 vessel in which substances are crushed with a pestle
mortician	 undertaker; CF. death
mortify	 humiliate by embarassing excessively; shame; punish the flesh; discipline (one's body) by self-denial; Ex. mortified by her blunder; Ex. mortify the flesh; CF. cause to die
mosaic	 picture made of small colorful inlaid tiles; ADJ.
mote	 small speck (esp. of dust)
motif	 theme; recurrent thematic element in a musical or literary work; single or repeated pattern; figure
motility	 ability to move spontaneously; ADJ. motile: moving spontaneously
motley	 multi-colored (as of a garment worn by a jester); mixed; heterogeneous; CF. jester: one who jests (as a paid fool at medieval courts)
mottled	 blotched in coloring; spotted; Ex. mottled face; V. mottle: mark with blotches of different colors
motto	 brief statement used to express a principle
mountebank	 charlatan; boastful pretender
muddle	 confuse; mix up confusedly; N: state of confusion
muggy	 (of weather) warm and damp
mulct	 defraud a person of something; swindle; Ex. mulct the boy of his legacy
multifarious	 varied; greatly diversified; Ex. multifarious activities
multiform	 having many forms
multilingual	 having many languages; fluent in several languages
multiplicity	 state of being numerous or multiple; large number; Ex. multiplicity of details; ADJ. multiple: of more than one element
mundane	 worldly as opposed to spiritual; everyday; of the ordinary; Ex. mundane existence; CF. world
munificent	 very generous in giving; Ex. munificent benefactor; N. munificience
mural	 wall painting
murky	 dark and gloomy; thick with fog; vague; Ex. murky night/fog; N. murk: partial or complete darkness; gloom
murmur	 low, indistinct, continuous sound; V. CF. mumble
muse	 ponder at length; N: source of inspiration (esp. of a poet)
musky	 having the odor of musk; N. musk: odorous substance secreted by an Asian deer
muster	 gather; assemble (troops); Ex. muster up one's strength for the ordeal; N.
musty	 stale (in odor or taste); spoiled by age; CF. moist
mutablility	 ability to change in form; fickleness; ADJ. mutable: able to change; fickle; CF. mutate; CF. mutant
mute	 silent; without speech; not pronounced; unable to speak; N: one who is incapable of speech; V: soften the sound, color, shade of
muted	 silent; muffled; toned down; Ex. muted traffic noise
mutilate	 maim; injure lastingly; deprive of a limb or an essential part
mutinous	 unruly; rebellious; Ex. mutinous teenagers; N. mutiny: open rebellion; CF. mutineer
mutter	 utter (complaining words) indistinctly in low tones
myopic	 nearsighted; lacking foresight; N. myopia
myriad	 very large number; ADJ. CF. ten thousand
mystic	 of hidden meaning and spiritual power; Ex. mystic ceremonies; N. CF. mysticism