
 
Home
 
Screen Shots
 
Download
 
Buy Now !
 
Comments
 
Articles
 
FAQ 
 
Contact
Links	
Barron GRE word list - N
nadir	 lowest point; point on the celestial sphere diametrically opposite the zenith
naivet\'e(naivety)	 quality of being unsophisticated; simplicity; artlessness; gullibility; ADJ. naive(na\"ive): ingenuous; lacking worldliness; simple; credulous
narcissist	 conceited person; N. narcissism; CF. narcissus
narrative	 related to telling a story; N: narrated account; story; V. narrate: tell (a story); CF. narration
nascent	 incipient; coming into being or existence; Ex. nascent ability in music
natal	 connected with birth; CF. prenatal; CF. postnatal
natation	 swimming
natty	 neatly or smartly dressed; dapper; smart; Ex. natty dresser
nausea	 feeling of sickness and desire to vomit; disgust; CF. seasickness
nauseate	 cause to become sick; fill with disgust; fill nausea
nauseous	 causing nausea; feeling nausea
nautical	 pertaining to ships or navigation
navigable	 (of a body of water) wide and deep enough to allow ships to pass through; (of a ship or aircraft) able to be steered
nebula	 diffuse mass of interstellar dust or gas; galaxy
nebulous	 vague; hazy; cloudy; of a nebula; Ex. nebulous proposal
necromancy	 black magic; sorcery; dealings with the dead; art that professes to communicate with the spirits of the dead so as to predict the future; CF. necromancer; CF. necro+divination; CF. necro-: death; Ex. necropolis
nectar	 drink of the gods; sweet liquid collected by bees
nefarious	 very wicked
negate	 cancel out; nullify; cause to have no effect; deny; N. negation
negligence	 neglect; failure to take reasonable care; ADJ. negligent: neglectful; lax; not taking enough care
negligible	 so small, trifling, or unimportant as to be easily disregarded
nemesis	 someone seeking revenge; source of downfall or ruin; CF. Nemesis
neologism	 new or newly coined word or phrase
neophyte	 recent convert; new member of a religious group; beginner; CF. plant
nepotism	 favoritism (to a relative); CF. nephew
nether	 lower; Ex. nether garments/regions
nettle	 irritate; annoy; vex; ADJ. nettlesome
nexus	 connection
nib	 beak(bill); pen point
nicety	 precision; accuracy; minute distinction or difference; Ex. to a nicety: exactly; precisely; Ex. distinguish between niceties
niggardly	 meanly stingy; parsimonious; N. niggard: stingy person
niggle	 spend too much time on minor points (esp. when finding fault); find fault; Ex. niggle over details; ADJ. niggling
nihilist	 one who considers traditional beliefs to be groundless and existence meaningless; absolute skeptic; revolutionary terrorist; CF. nihilism: belief that nothing has meaning or value; belief that destruction of existing political or social institutio
nimble	 quick in movement; agile; quick in understanding; Ex. nimble climber/mind
nip	 snip off; stop something's growth or development; bite; make numb with cold; Ex. nip the plan; Ex. A guard dog nipped the postman; Ex. fingers nipped by the extreme chill
nirvana	 in Buddhist teachings, the ideal state in which the individual loses himself in the attainment of an impersonal beatitude
nocturnal	 done or active at night; Ex. nocturnal animals/raids; CF. nocturne
noisome	 foul smelling; very unpleasant; unwholesome
nomadic	 wandering; N. nomad: tribe who migrates from place to place
nomenclature	 terminology(system of specialized words); system of names or naming things
nominal	 in name only; of a name; trifling; (of a sum of money) very small; CF. nominate: propose as a candidate; appoint
nonchalance	 indifference; lack of concern; composure; ADJ. nonchalant: unconcerned; cool; indifferent; Ex. nonchalant attitude to his debts
noncommittal	 neutral; refusing commitment to a particular opinion; unpledged; undecided
nondescript	 undistinctive; ordinary; ordinary-looking; Ex. nondescript fellow in a crowd
nonentity	 person of no importance; nonexistence
nonplus	 put at a loss; bring to a halt by confusion; perplex; CF. no more
nonsense	 speech or writing with no meaning; foolish behavior or language; Ex. make (a) nonsense of: spoil; cause to fail
noose	 loop formed in a rope
nostalgia	 homesickness; longing for the past; Ex. nostalgia for the clothes of 1920s; ADJ. nostalgic
nostrum	 questionable medicine; quack medicine; CF. our (remedy)
notable	 conspicuous; worthy of note; remarkable; important; distinguished; noted
notch	 V-shaped cut in a surface; V.
notoriety	 disrepute; ill fame
nourish	 provide with food necessary for life and growth
nourishment	 something that nourishes; food
nova	 star that suddenly becomes much brighter and then returns to its original brightness
novelty	 something new; newness; ADJ. novel: new; original
novice	 beginner
noxious	 harmful; CF. obnoxious
nuance	 shade of slight difference in meaning or color; subtle distinction
nubile	 marriageable; of marriageable age; CF. connubial
nugatory	 worthless; futile
nullify	 make invalid; make null; invalidate
numismatist	 person who collects coins; N. numismatics: study or collection of money, coins, and medals
nuptial	 related to marriage or the wedding ceremony; N. nuptials: wedding ceremony
nurse	 suckle; take care of (as a nurse); bear in mind; Ex. nursing mother; Ex. nurse a hope/grudge against someone
nurture	 nourish; feed; educate; rear; care for while it is growing or developing; foster; cultivate; N: something that nourishes; rearing
nutrient	 nourishing substance; ADJ: providing nourishment
nutrition	 process of nourishing or being nourished; CF. malnutrition
nutritious	 providing nourishment
