pachyderm	 thick-skinned animal
pacifist	 one opposed to force; antimilitarist; ADJ. N. pacifism: opposition to war as a means of resolving disputes
pacify	 soothe; make calm or quiet; subdue; bring peace to
padre	 chaplain (in the armed forces)
paean	 song of praise or joy; Ex. paeans celebrating the victory
painstaking	 taking pains; showing hard work; taking great care; very careful and through
palatable	 agreeable; pleasing to the taste
palate	 roof of the mouth; sense of the taste
palatial	 of or suitable for a palace; magnificent
paleontology	 study of prehistoric life or fossils; CF. paleo-: ancient or prehistoric; Ex. paleography: study of ancient written documents
palette	 board on which painter mixes pigments(coloring matters)
palimpsest	 parchment or piece of writing material used for second time after original writing has been erased
pall	 become boring; grow tiresome
pallet	 small poor bed; Ex. straw pallet
palliate	 ease pain (without curing); make less severe or offensive (a crime or illness)
pallid	 pale; wan; Ex. pallid complexion
palm	 conceal in the palm of the hand; palm off: pass off; Ex. palm off some bad oranges onto the lady/the painting as a real Renoir
palpable	 tangible; (of something bad) easily perceptible; obvious; Ex. palpable blunder
palpitate	 throb; beat rapidly; flutter; tremble; Ex. Her heart began to palpitate.
paltry	 insignificant; petty; trifling; contemptible; Ex. paltry sum; CF. trash
pan	 criticize harshly
panacea	 cure-all; remedy for all diseases
panache	 flair; manner of doing things without any difficulty (causing admiration); flamboyance; bunch of feathers (on a helmet); Ex. with great panache;
pandemic	 widespread; affecting the majority of people; N: pandemic disease; CF. all people
Pandemonium	 wild tumult(commotion); wild noisy disorder; CF. Paradise Lost
pander	 cater to (the low desires of others)
panegyric	 formal praise; encomium; Ex. I don't deserve such panegyrics.
pang	 sudden sharp feeling of pain
panoramic	 denoting an unobstructed and comprehensive view; N. panorama: unbroken view of a wide area
pantomime	 acting without dialogue; V.
papyrus	 ancient paper made from stem of papyrus plant
parable	 short simple story teaching a moral
paradigm	 model; example that serves as a model; pattern; list of all the inflectional forms of a word
paradox	 something apparently contradictory in nature (that may nonetheless be true); statement that looks false but is actually correct
paragon	 model of perfection; Ex. paragon of virtue
parallel	 similar; analogous; corresponding; N: parallel line; person or thing that is parallel (to another); similarity; Ex. know of no parallel to the case; Ex. without parallel; V: be similar to; make parallel; Ex. Your experience parallels mine; CF. unp
parallelism	 state of being parallel; similarity; analogy
parameter	 limit; independent variable; Ex. parameters of the problem; Ex. within the parameters of the budget
paramount	 foremost in importance; supreme; CF. para-: beyond; above; Ex. paranormal
paramour	 illicit lover
paranoia	 psychosis marked by delusions of grandeur or persecution; N: ADJ: paranoid, paranoiac
paraphernalia	 equipment; odds and ends used in a particular activity; personal belongings; Ex. photographic paraphernalia; CF. married woman's property exclusive of her dowry
paraphrase	 restate a passage in one's own words while retaining thought of author; N: restatement of a text in other words
parasite	 animal or plant living on another; toady; sycophant; CF. para-: beside
parched	 extremely dry; very thirsty; V. parch: make or become extremely dry (by exposure to heat)
parchment	 writing material made from the skin of a sheep or goat
pare	 cut away the outer covering or skin of (with a knife); trim; Ex. pare apples/expenses
pariah	 social outcast; Ex. Mariah the pariah
parish	 area in the care of a single priest and served by one main church
parity	 equality; close resemblance; CF. disparate
parlance	 language; manner of speaking; idiom; Ex. in legal/common parlance
parley	 conference (between opponents); CF. speak
parochial	 narrow in scope or outlook; provincial; related to parishes
parody	 humorous imitation; spoof; takeoff; travesty; V.
paroxysm	 fit or attack of pain, laughter, rage; sudden outburst
parquet	 floor made of wood strips inlaid in a mosaic like matter; CF. strip: long narrow piece
parry	 ward off a blow; deflect; Ex. He parried the unwelcome question very skillfully; N.
parsimony	 stinginess; excessive frugality; ADJ. parsimonious
partial	 incomplete; favoring one side over another; having a liking for something
partiality	 state of being partial; inclination; favorable bias; special fondness; preference
partisan	 one-sided; prejudiced; committed to a party (with dislike of any others); N: strong supporter of a party; guerrilla
partition	 divide into parts
parvenu	 upstart; newly rich person
pass\'e	 old-fashioned; past the prime
pass_off	 present falsely; represent falsely to be
passive	 not active; acted upon; receiving an action without acting in return; accepting without resistance
paste	 smooth viscous mixture as of flour(powder made by crushing grain) and water (used as an adhesive); V: cause to adhere by applying paste
pastiche	 imitation of another's style in musical composition or in writing; work of art openly imitating the works of other artists
pastoral	 rural; of rural life; idyllic; of a pastor
pastry	 paste of flour and water (eaten when baked)
patent	 obvious; easily seen; open for the public to read; of or protected by a patent; Ex. patent to everyone; N.
pathetic	 causing sadness, compassion, pity; touching
pathological	 pertaining to disease; N. pathology: study of disease
pathos	 tender sorrow; pity; quality in art or literature that produces these feelings; Ex. pathos that runs through the novel
patina	 green crust on old bronze works or copper; tone slowly taken by varnished painting
patois	 local or provincial dialect
patriarch	 father and ruler of a family or tribe
patrician	 noble; aristocratic; N: person of high rank; aristocrat; CF. member of the governing classes in ancient Rome; CF. plebian
patrimony	 property inherited from a father
patronize	 support; act superior toward; treat in a condescending manner; be a customer of; N. patron: one that supports; regular customer; N. patronage; CF. boycott
paucity	 scarcity; dearth
pauper	 very poor person
peccadillo	 slight offense or fault; CF. sin
pecuniary	 pertaining to money
pedagogue	 teacher; CF. child leader
pedagogy	 teaching; art of education
pedant	 scholar who overemphasizes book learning, trivial details of learning, or technicalities
pedantic	 bookish; showing off learning; marked by an excessive ostentatious concern for book learning; N. pedantry
peddle	 travel about selling (wares); CF. foot
pedestal	 support or base as for a pillar or statue
pedestrian	 ordinary; dull; unimaginative(lacking in imagination); going on foot; Ex. pedestrian prose; N.
pediatrician	 physician specializing in children's diseases; N. pediatrics
pedigree	 ancestry; lineage
peer	 one who has equal standing with another; nobleman; V: look intently; N. peerage; CF. peeress
peerless	 having no equal; incomparable
peevish	 bad-tempered; irritable; V. peeve: make angry
pejorative	 (of a word or phrase) suggesting that someone is of little value; negative in connotation; having a belittling effect; Ex. Many women now considers ``housewife'' a pejorative expression, because it patronized them.
pell-mell	 in confusion; disorderly; Ex. dash pell-mell
pellucid	 transparent; limpid(crystal clear); clear in meaning; easy to understand
pen	 fenced enclosure for animals; confining space; Ex. sheep pen; V: confine in a pen; enclose
penance	 self-imposed punishment for sin; Ex. do penance for one's sins; CF. penitent
penchant	 strong inclination; strong liking (esp. for something that is disapproved of by other people); Ex. penchant for fast cars
pendant(pendent)	 hanging down from something; pending; N: ornament (hanging from a necklace etc.)
pending	 not yet decided or settled; impending; Ex. pending decision; PREP. while awaiting; until; Ex. delay the decision pending his return
pendulous	 hanging; suspended
penetrate	 enter into; pierce; permeate; see through; grasp the inner significance of; understand
penitent	 repentant; N.
penology	 study of prison management and criminal rehabilitation
pensive	 dreamily or deeply thoughtful; sadly thoughtful; thoughtful with a hint of sadness; contemplative; CF. think over
penumbra	 partial shadow (in an eclipse); CF. almost shadow
penury	 extreme poverty; stinginess; ADJ. penurious: very poor; stingy
peon	 landless agricultural worker; bond servant; menial worker; N. peonage
perceptive	 insightful; showing a good ability at perceiving and understanding; aware; wise; of perception
percussion	 striking one object against another sharply; Ex. percussion instrument; N: striking together of two bodies; sound caused by percussion
perdition	 damnation; complete ruin; hell
peregrination	 journey; V. peregrinate
peremptory	 demanding and leaving no choice; imperative; Ex. peremptory decree/knock
perennial	 something long-lasting; perennial plant; ADJ: lasting through the year or many years; lasting for a long time; enduring
perfidious	 treacherous; disloyal; N. perfidy: treachery
perforate	 pierce; put a hole through
perfunctory	 done routinely and with little care; superficial; not thorough; lacking interest, care, or enthusiasm; Ex. perfunctory kiss
perigee	 point of moon's orbit when it is nearest the earth; CF. apogee
perimeter	 outer boundary; length of the outer boundary; circumference
peripatetic	 walking about from place to place (to work); moving; Ex. peripatetic school of philosophy
peripheral	 of a periphery; marginal; outer; of minor importance; not central; Ex. peripheral nerve/interest
periphery	 outside edge especially of a round surface; perimeter; Ex. periphery of the town
perjury	 false testimony while under oath; V. perjure oneself: testify falsely under oath
permeable	 that can be permeated; penetrable; porous; allowing liquids or gas to pass through; V. permeate: spread or flow throughout; charge
permissive	 allowing much freedom; lenient; Ex. permissive society
pernicious	 very harmful; deadly; very destructive; Ex. pernicious effect/anemia
peroration	 conclusion of an oration; perorating; V. perorate: conclude a speech; speak at great length
perpetrate	 commit an offense; do (something wrong)
perpetual	 everlasting
perpetuate	 make perpetual; make something last for a long time; preserve from extinction; N. perpetuity
perquisite(perk)	 any gain above stipulated salary; Ex. perquisites such as free meals and a car
persevere	 continue steadily in spite of difficulties
persist	 continue in existence; last; continue in a course of action in spite of opposition; Ex. persist in/with something; ADJ. persistent
personable	 attractive (in personality or appearance)
personify	 represent (an inanimate object) as a person; be the embodiment or perfect example of; Ex. She is evil/patience personified; N. personification
perspicacious	 (of someone) having insight; penetrating; astute
perspicuity	 clearness of expression; freedom from ambiguity
perspicuous	 (of something) plainly expressed; easy to understand; Ex. perspicuous comments
pert	 (esp. of a girl or young woman) impertinent; forward; trim; jaunty; Ex. pert young miss/hat
pertinacious	 holding tenaciously to an action; stubborn; persistent
pertinent	 suitable; to the point; relevant
perturb	 disturb greatly
peruse	 read through with care; N. perusal
pervasive	 spread throughout; V. pervade: (of smells, ideas, feelings) spread throughout; charge; permeate
perverse	 purposely continuing to do something wrong; stubbornly wrongheaded; perverted; directed away from what is right; wicked and unacceptable; Ex. perverse satisfaction; Ex. Hannibal Lecter in a perverse mood; N. perversity
perversion	 corruption; turning from right to wrong
pervert	 corrupt; turn from right to wrong; misuse; Ex. perverted sexual desire/scientific knowledge; N: person whose sexual behavior is not natural
pessimism	 belief that life is basically bad or evil; gloominess; tendency to take the gloomiest possible view of a situation; ADJ. pessimistic
pestilential(pestilent)	 causing plague; tending to cause death; baneful; N. pestilence: fatal epidemic disease (esp. bubonic plague)
pestle	 tool for mashing or grinding substances in a hard bowl or mortar
petrify	 turn to stone; cause to become stonelike; stun or paralyze
petty	 trivial; unimportant; very small; small-minded; petty-minded
petulant	 touchy; peevish; ill-tempered
phalanx	 formation of infantry carrying overlapping shields and long spears; group of men packed together (for attack or defense)
pharisaical	 pertaining to the Pharisees, who paid scrupulous attention to tradition; self-righteous; hypocritical
pharisee	 Pharisee: member of an ancient Jewish group that emphasized strict observance of the Mosaic law (considering themselves very holy); hypocritical self-righteous person
phenomena	 observable facts; subjects of scientific investigation; SG. phenomenon: observable fact; very unusual person, thing, or event; marvel; wonder; CF. phenomenons; ADJ. phenomenal: very unusual; extraordinary; of a phenomenon; Ex. phenomenal strength
philanderer	 faithless lover; flirt
philanthropist	 lover of mankind; doer of good; N. philanthropy
philatelist	 stamp-collector; N. philately: stamp collecting
Philistine	 narrow-minded person, uncultured and exclusively interested in material gain; uncultured person who is indifferent to artistic and cultural values; member of an ancient people in Palestine; OP. aesthete
philology	 study of language or words
phlegmatic	 calm and unexcitable; not easily disturbed; CF. phlegm: sticky mucus produced in the respiratory tract
phobia	 morbid fear
phoenix	 symbol of immortality or rebirth; Ex. phoenix rising from its ashes
phylum	 major classification, second to kingdom, of plants and animals; category ranking below a kingdom and above a class; division
physiognomy	 face (as showing the character and the mind); art of judging human character from facial features
physiological	 pertaining to the science of the function of living organisms; N. physiology
piebald	 of different colors; mottled; spotted in different colors (esp. in black and white); Ex. piebald horse; CF. pie+bald
piecemeal	 one part at a time; gradually; in stages; Ex. read a novel piecemeal
pied	 piebald; variegated(many-colored); multicolored
piety	 devoutness; reverence for God; ADJ. pious
pigment	 coloring matter (usually powder to be mixed with water or oil)
pilfer	 steal things of small value; filch; snitch
pillage	 plunder
pillory	 punish by placing in a wooden frame or pillory; subject or expose to criticism and ridicule; N.
pinch	 squeeze between the thumb and a finger, or other edges; Ex. I had to pinch myself to make sure I wasn't dreaming. N: amount that can be held between the thumb and a finger
pine	 long for; yearn; languish from longing or grief; decline
pinion	 restrain or immobilize by binding the wings or legs; N: bird's wing
pinnace	 small boat
pinnacle	 peak; highest point; acme; Ex. pinnacle of fame
pious	 devout; religious; N. piety
piquant	 pleasantly tart-tasting; spicy; pleasantly stimulating; Ex. piquant situation when my old enemy asked for my help
pique	 irritation; resentment from wounded pride (eg. loss in a contest); V: provoke; arouse; annoy; cause to feel resentment; Ex. pique her curiosity
piscatorial	 pertaining to fishing; CF. Pisces
pitfall	 hidden danger; concealed trap
pith	 core or marrow; spongelike substance in the center of stems; essence; substance
pithy	 concise and meaningful; substantial; meaty
pittance	 small amount (of money); small allowance or wage
pivotal	 of a pivot; central; critical; crucial
placate	 pacify; bring peace to; conciliate; appease
placebo	 harmless substance prescribed as a dummy pill
placid	 peaceful; calm; Ex. placid child/lake
plagiarize	 steal another's ideas or writings and pass them off as one's own; Ex. ideas plagiarized from my article; N. plagiarism; CF. kidnap
plaintive	 expressing sorrow; mournful; Ex. plaintive song
plait	 braid; interwine; interweave strands or lengths of; make by weaving strands together; Ex. plaited hair; N: braided length as of hair o fabric; CF. pigtail, ponytail
plane	 carpenter's tool for smoothing and leveling wood; V. CF. flat
plaster	 paste that hardens to a smooth solid and is used for coating walls; V.
plasticity	 ability to be molded; ADJ. plastic: capable of being shaped or molded; Ex. plastic material such as clay
platitude	 trite remark; commonplace statement; ADJ. platitudinous
platonic	 purely spiritual; theoretical; without sensual desire
plaudit	 praise; enthusiastic approval; round(succession or series) of applause; ADJ. plauditory; CF. applaud
plausible	 conceivably true; having a show of truth but open to doubt; specious
plebeian	 common; vulgar; pertaining to the common people; N: common people in ancient Rome; CF. patrician
plebiscite	 direct vote by the entire electorate (on an important issue)
plenary	 (of power) complete; full; fully attended by all qualified members; Ex. plenary power
plenitude	 abundance; plenty; great amount; completeness; fullness; CF. plenary, plenty
plethora	 excess; overabundance; Ex. a plethora of excuses
pliable	 flexible; easily influenced; yielding; adaptable
pliant	 flexible; easily influenced
plight	 difficult condition; condition or state (esp. a bad state or condition); predicament
ploy	 strategem to gain an advantage; tactic; Ex. management ploy
pluck	 courage; V: pull off or out; pull out the hair or feathers of; ADJ. plucky: courageous; brave
plumage	 feathers of a bird;
plumb	 exactly vertical; N: weight on the end of a line; V: examine very carefully or critically in order to understand; measure depth (by sounding); Ex. plumb the depth of
plumber	 one who installs and repairs pipes and plumbing(pipes)
plume	 feather, esp. large or showy one; something that rises into the air (like the shape of a feather); Ex. plume of smoke: ?? ??
plummet	 fall sharply; fall straight down; Ex. Stock prices plummeted.
plump	 pleasantly fat; nicely rounded
plutocracy	 society ruled by the wealthy
podiatrist	 doctor who treats ailments of the feet; chiropodist; N. podiatrics
podium	 pedestal; raised platform
poignancy	 quality of being deeply moving; keenness of emotion; ADJ. poignant: touching; deeply moving; (of sorrow, grief, etc.) painful; keenly distressing to the mind; Ex. poignant memory/anxiety; CF. prick
poise	 good judgment with composure; balance; V: place in a carefully balanced position
polar	 of a pole; characterized by opposite extremes; Ex. polar opposites
polarity	 state of having two opposite qualities
polarize	 split into opposite extremes or camps
polemic	 attack or defense of an opinion; controversy or refutation; argument in support of point of view; N. polemics: art of debate or controversy
polemical(polemic)	 aggressive in verbal attack; disputatious (rather than simply expressing opinions)
politic	 prudent; judicious; well judged; expedient; well devised
polity	 (particular form of) political organization; form of government of nation or state; Ex. student polity
polygamist	 one who has more than one spouse at a time; CF. bigamy; CF. polyandry
polyglot	 speaking several languages; multilingual; Ex. polyglot person/society; N.
pomposity	 self-important behavior; acting like a stuffed shirt(pompous person); ADJ. pompous: self-important
ponderous	 having great weight; weighty; unwieldy; lacking lightness; dull; Ex. ponderous body/style of writing
pontifical	 pertaining to a bishop or pope; pompous or pretentious; CF. pontiff: pope; bishop
pore	 study industriously; ponder; scrutinize; Ex. pore over the book; N.
porous	 full of pores; like a sieve
porridge	 soft food made by boiling oatmeal
portend	 foretell; presage; be a sign or warning of; N. portent: sign; omen; forewarning
portly	 stout; corpulent
pose	 assume a particular posture; put forward; present; affect a particular attitude (to impress others); Ex. pose a threat; N.
poseur	 person who pretends to be sophisticated, elegant, etc., to impress others; person who poses; CF. pose
posterity	 descendants; future generations; Ex. go down to posterity; CF. posterior, anterior
posthumous	 after death (as of child born after father's death or book published after author's death); coming or occurring after one's death; Ex. posthumous fame/novel
postmortem	 autopsy; ADJ: occurring after death; of a postmortem
postulate	 self-evident truth; something assumed without proof; V: assume the truth of (as a basis of an argument)
posture	 assume an affected pose; act artificially; N: pose; attitude
potable	 suitable for drinking; drinkable
potent	 powerful; convincing; persuasive; greatly influential
potentate	 monarch; sovereign
potential	 expressing possibility; latent; N: capacity for growth
potion	 dose (of liquids); liquid dose
potpourri	 heterogeneous mixture; medley; mixture of dried flower petals a pot (to give a pleasant smell to a room)
poultice	 soothing application applied to sore and inflamed portions of the body
pr\'ecis	 abstract; concise summing up of main points; concise summary of a text
practicable	 feasible
practical	 based on experience; of or acquired through practice (rather than theory); useful; Ex. practical man
pragmatic	 practical (as opposed to idealistic); concerned with practical worth or impact of something; Ex. pragmatic test of the skill
pragmatist	 practical person; N. pragmatism: pragmatic way of dealing with things
prance	 move about in a spirited manner (proudly and confidently)
prank	 mischievous trick
prate	 talk idly; speak foolishly; boast idly
prattle	 talk idly; babble; N. CF. prate
preamble	 introductory statement
precarious	 unsafe; lacking in stability; uncertain; risky; Ex. precarious living
precedent	 preceding (in time, rank, etc.)
precept	 practical rule guiding conduct; Ex. mother's precept
precinct	 division of a city for election or police purposes; precincts: space that surrounds a building; Ex. precincts of the college
precipice	 cliff; dangerous position; Ex. on the edge of the precipice
precipitant	 something that causes a substance in a chemical solution to separate out in solid form; OP. solvent
precipitate	 hurl downward; throw headlong; hasten; cause to happen sooner; condense and fall as rain or snow; cause (a solid substance) to be separated from a solution; ADJ. hasty; rash; premature; sudden
precipitous	 steep; overhasty; precipitate
precise	 exact
preclude	 make impossible; prevent; exclude; eliminate
precocious	 advanced in development; N. precocity
precursor	 forerunner; predecessor
predator	 predatory animal or bird; predatory person; creature that seizes and devours another animal; person who robs or exploits others; ADJ. predatory: living by preying on other organisms; plundering; N. predation
predecessor	 former occupant of a post
predetermine	 determine in advance; predestine; settle or decide beforehand; influence markedly
predicament	 difficult situation; tricky or dangerous situation; dilemma
predilection	 preference; partiality
predispose	 give an inclination toward (in advance); make susceptible to; Ex. predispose people to certain cancer; N. predisposition
preeminent	 outstanding; superior
preempt	 prevent in advance; head off(forestall); forestall by acting first; appropriate for oneself before others; supplant; take the place of; displace; Ex. preempt any attempts; ADJ. preemptive
preen	 make oneself tidy in appearance; feel self-satisfaction or pride; (of a bird) smooth or clean (feathers) with the beak; Ex. preen oneself on; CF. prune
prefatory	 introductory; of a preface
prefigure	 be a sign of; foreshadow
prehensile	 capable of grasping or holding (esp. by wrapping around); Ex. prehensile tails
prelate	 church dignitary; priest of high position in the church (esp. bishop)
prelude	 introduction; introductory performance or event; forerunner
premeditate	 plan in advance; Ex. premeditated murder
premise	 assumption; postulate; proposition upon which an argument is based
premonition	 forewarning; presentiment; foreboding
premonitory	 serving to warn
preponderance	 superiority of power, quantity, etc.; V. preponderate: be greater in power, weight, or importance; ADJ. preponderant
prepossessing	 attractive; CF. preoccupying ?
preposterous	 absurd; completely unreasonable; ridiculous
prerogative	 privilege; unquestionable right; CF. ask before
presage	 foretell; be a warning or sign of; N: presentiment; foreboding; omen
prescience	 ability to foretell the future; knowledge of actions before they occur; ADJ. prescient
presentiment	 premonition; foreboding; feeling something will happen; anticipatory fear
prestige	 respect or admiration; impression produced by achievements or reputation; ADJ: causing admiration; ADJ. prestigious: having prestige
presume	 take for granted; assume; act overconfidently; take liberties; presume on/upon: take unfair advantage of (someone's kindness or connection); N. presumption
presumptuous	 going beyond what is right; excessively forward; arrogant; taking liberties
pretend	 feign; pretend to: claim to possess; make pretensions to; Ex. I don't pretend to much expertise; N. pretense
pretension	 pretentiousness; claim (without foundation); Ex. I make no pretensions to skill as an artist.
pretentious	 ostentatious; showy; pompous; making unjustified claims; overambitious; Ex. pretentious films that claim to be art
preternatural	 beyond what is normal in nature; supernatural; Ex. preternatural strength/forces
pretext	 excuse
prevail	 be widespread; triumph over; gain victory; prevail on: persuade; induce; Ex. Justice has prevailed; Ex. prevail on someone to do something
prevalent	 widespread; generally accepted
prevaricate	 lie; hide the truth (by equivocating)
prey	 target of a hunt; victim; V: hunt and eat as prey; victimize; Ex. Cats prey on mice.
prim	 proper to the point of affectation; very precise and formal; exceedingly proper
primal	 first in rank or importance; being first in time; original; Ex. man's primal innocence
primary	 first in rank or importance; principal; earliest in time; Ex. primary stages; N. CF. first
primate	 group of mammals including humans
prime	 period of ideal or peak condition; earliest or beginning stage; Ex. in the prime of life; Ex. prime of the year(spring); ADJ: first in importance or rank; first; V: make ready; prepare
primogeniture	 seniority by birth; state of being the first-born child; right of the eldest child (to inherit the entire property of one or both parents)
primordial	 existing at the beginning (of time); rudimentary
primp	 groom oneself with care; adorn oneself
pristine	 unspoiled; remaining in a pure state; characteristic of earlier times; primitive; Ex. an old book in pristine condition
privation	 lack of the basic necessities or comforts of life; hardship; want; CF. deprive
privy	 secret; hidden; not public; made a participant in something secret; Ex. privy chamber government; Ex. be privy to a discussion; CF. private
prize	 pry; move with a lever; value highly; esteem; Ex. his most prized possession; N: something captured during war-time (esp. an enemy ship)
probe	 explore with a probe or tools; investigate; N: slender instrument used to explore a wound or body cavity; device designed to investigate an unknown region; thorough investigation; Ex. space probe
probity	 uprightness; honesty; incorruptibility
problematic	 causing a problem; open to doubt; doubtful; unsettled; questionable; Ex. Whether the arena will ever be completed is problematic.
proclivity	 inclination; natural tendency (esp. towards something bad)
procrastinate	 postpone; delay or put off
procurement	 obtaining; V. procure: obtain by effort; obtain (a prostitute) for another
prod	 poke (with a pointed object); stir up; urge; goad to action; N: pointed object used to prod; prodding
prodigal	 wasteful; reckless with money; profuse; Ex. a mind prodigal of ideas; N. prodigality
prodigious	 enormous; marvelous; extraordinary; Ex. prodigious amount/memory
prodigy	 highly gifted child; person with exceptional talents; marvel; wonder
profane	 violate; desecrate (something holy); treat unworthily; be profane for; ADJ: secular; nonreligious; irreverent for holy things
profligate	 wasteful (of money); dissipated; wildly immoral; dissolute; N: profligate person; N. profligacy
profound	 deep; not superficial; complete; Ex. profound thinker/remark/silence/deafness; N. profundity
profusion	 great amount; plenty; overabundance; excess; lavish expenditure; Ex. profusion of choices; ADJ. profuse: plentiful; copious; giving or given abundantly; extravagant
progenitor	 ancestor
progeny	 children; offspring; descendants
prognosis	 forecasted course of a disease; prediction; CF. prognostic
prognosticate	 predict (according to present indications)
prohibitive	 so high as to prohibit purchase or use; tending to prevent the purchase or use of something; prohibiting; inclined to prevent or forbid; Ex. prohibitive tax
projectile	 missile; fired or thrown object (such as stone or bullet)
proletarian	 member of the working class; blue collar guy; N. proletariat: working class (who have to work for wages)
proliferate	 grow rapidly (in numbers); spread; multiply; N. proliferation
prolific	 producing offspring or fruit in abundance; fertile; fecund; abundantly fruitful; producing abundant works; Ex. prolific writer
prolixity	 tedious wordiness; verbosity; ADJ. prolix: wordy; verbose; diffuse
prologue	 introduction (to a poem or play)
prolong	 lengthen; extend; draw out
prominent	 protruding(sticking out); conspicuous; notable; eminent
promiscuous	 mixed indiscriminately; indiscriminate; not choosing carefully; indiscriminate in the choice of sexual partners; irregular, particularly sexually; Ex. promiscuous life/girl; N. promiscuity
promontory	 headland
promote	 advance in rank; advance; help to flourish; advocate; help actively in forming; publicize or popularize; Ex. Milk promotes health; Ex. promote a match/bill; Ex. promote a new product
prompt	 cause; urge; provoke; provide a cue (for an actor); ADJ: done without delay; done at the right time; punctual; on time; N: reminder or cue
promulgate	 announce; proclaim a doctrine or law; make known by official publication
prone	 inclined to; likely to (suffer); prostrate; lying with the front downward; Ex. prone to disease/make mistakes; Ex. accident-prone
prong	 pointed projecting part
pronounced	 distinct; very noticeable; Ex. pronounced limp
prop	 support placed under or against something; V.
propagate	 increase in number by producing young; multiply; spread; Ex. Most plants propagate by seed; Ex. newspaper propagating their ideas
propellant(propellent)	 substance which propels or drives forward (such as an explosive charge or a rocket fuel)
propensity	 natural inclination
prophetic	 of a prophet or prophecy; having to do with predicting the future; N. prophecy; V. prophesy; N. prophet
prophylactic	 used to prevent disease; N: something prophylactic; condom; N. prophylaxis: prevention of disease
propinquity	 nearness (in space or relationship); proximity; kinship
propitiate	 appease; conciliate; make peaceful; ADJ. propitiatory
propitious	 favorable; auspicious; advantageous; fortunate; Ex. propitious day/sign
proponent	 supporter; backer; opposite of opponent
propound	 put forth for consideration or analysis; set forth; Ex. propound a problem/theory
propriety	 fitness; quality of being proper; correct conduct; conformity to prevailing customs and usages; CF. proprietor, proprietary
propulsive	 driving forward; N. propulsion
prosaic	 lacking in imagination; dull and unimaginative; matter-of-fact(concerned with facts, not imagination or feelings); factual; CF. prose
proscenium	 part of stage in front of curtain; front arch of a stage
proscribe	 prohibit; ostracize; banish; outlaw
proselytize	 (induce someone to) convert to a religion or belief; N. proselyte: new convert to a doctrine or religion
prosody	 art of versification; study of the metrical structure of verse
prosper	 become successful (esp. financially); thrive; grow well; Ex. children prospering under his care
prosperity	 good fortune and financial success; physical well-being
prosperous	 successful; rich; affluent; well-to-do; well-off
prostrate	 stretch out full on ground; make prostrate; enervate; Ex. prostrating illness; ADJ: lying face down; having lost all strength
prot\'eg\'e	 person receiving protection and support from a patron
protagonist	 leader or noticeable supporter of an idea; chief character in a play or story
protean	 able to take on many forms; versatile; CF. Proteus: sea god to change his shape at will
protocol	 diplomatic etiquette; ceremony and etiquette observed by diplomats; first copy of a treaty before its ratification; Ex. Protocol demands that the queen meet him at the airport.
prototype	 original work used as a model by others
protract	 prolong; lengthen in time; draw out
protrude	 stick out; jut; project; Ex. protruding teeth
protuberance	 protrusion; swelling; bulge
provenance	 place of origin; origin or source of something; Ex. Gunpowder is of Chinese provenance; CF. come
provender	 dry food for livestock; fodder
proverb	 adage; someone or something well known for notoriety; ADJ. proverbial: of a proverb; widely known; ADV. proverbially
providence	 quality of being provident; divine care; god's care; Providence: god; Ex. It seemed like providence that the doctor happened to be there; ADJ. providential: of divine providence; fortunate
provident	 providing for future needs; displaying foresight; thrifty; preparing for emergencies; OP. improvident
provincial	 pertaining to a province; limited in outlook; narrow; unsophisticated
provision	 act of providing; something provided; preparatory measure; provisions: necessary supplies (esp. food); stipulation; condition in an agreement; Ex. According to the provisions of the agreement
provisional	 tentative; temporary
proviso	 stipulation; condition in an agreement; provision
provocative	 arousing anger or sexual interest; annoying; Ex. provocative in tight jeans; V. provoke: incite to anger; cause (an unpleasant action or feeling); N. provocation
prowess	 extraordinary ability; military bravery; Ex. prowess in battle
proximity	 nearness; ADJ. proximate
proxy	 authorized agent; authority to act for another
prude	 excessively modest or proper person (who is easily shocked by improper things, esp. of a sexual nature); N. prudery; ADJ. prudish: excessively concerned with propriety
prudent	 cautious; careful; prudential
prune	 cut away; trim
prurient	 having or causing lustful desires and thoughts; arousing immoderate sexual desire
pry	 inquire impertinently (someone else's private affairs); use leverage to raise or open something; prize; N. pries: tool for prying
pseudonym	 pen name; fictitious name assumed by an author; ADJ. pseudonymous
psyche	 soul; mind
psychiatrist	 doctor who treats mental diseases
psychic	 of psyche; mental; of or possessing extraordinary mental powers
psychopathic	 pertaining to mental dearrangement; N. psychopath: person with an antisocial personality disorder
psychosis	 mental disorder; ADJ. N. psychotic
psychosomatic	 of the influence of the mind on the body (esp. with respect to disease)
pterodactyl	 extinct flying reptile; CF. wing+finger
pucker	 gather into wrinkles or folds; N: wrinkle or fold
pudding	 hot sweet dish
puerile	 childish; immature; CF. puer: boy
pugilist	 boxer; CF. pugilism: boxing
pugnacity	 combativeness; disposition to fight; ADJ. pugnacious: (of people) belligerent; combative in nature
puissant	 powerful; strong; potent; N. puissance: power
pulchritude	 beauty; comeliness; ADJ. pulchritudinous
pulmonary	 pertaining to the lungs
pulpit	 raised platform used in preaching (in a church)
pulsate	 throb; beat regularly; vibrate regularly
pulse	 rhythmical throbbing of arteries; brief sudden change in a normally constant quantity; V: pulsate
pulverize	 crush or grind into very small particles
pummel	 pommel; beat or pound with fists
punctilious	 minutely attentive (perhaps too much so) to fine points; stressing niceties of conduct or form; N. punctilio, punctiliousness: careful attention payed to every small exact detail
pundit	 authority on a subject; expert; learned person
pungent	 stinging; acrid; sharp in taste or smell; (of speech or writing) caustic; N. pungency
punitive	 punishing; Ex. punitive measures
puny	 tiny; weak; insignificant
purchase	 secure grasp or hold; firm grasp or footing
purgatory	 place of spiritual expiation; temporary state or place in which the souls must expiate their sins
purge	 remove or get rid of something or someone unwanted; eliminate; free from blame or guilt; cleanse or purify (esp. of sin, guilt, or defilement); N.
purport	 intention; purpose; meaning; V: claim; profess; Ex. order which purports to be signed by the general
purported	 alleged; claimed; reputed or rumored; Ex. purported Satanists
purse	 pucker; contract (lips) into wrinkles; N: wallet
purveyor	 furnisher of foodstuffs; caterer; V. purvey: supply (eg. food); furnish; CF. provide
pushy	 disagreeably aggressive
pusillanimous	 cowardly; lacking courage; fainthearted
putative	 supposed; reputed; generally regarded as such; Ex. putative father of the child
putrefy	 make or become putrid; N. putrefaction
putrescent	 becoming putrid; putrefying
putrid	 decayed and foul-smelling; foul; rotten; decayed; N. putridity
puzzle	 baffle or confuse by a difficult problem; ponder over a problem in an effort to solve; clarify or solve by reasoning; Ex. puzzle out the answer; N.
pyromaniac	 person with an insane desire to set things on fire