
 
Home
 
Screen Shots
 
Download
 
Buy Now !
 
Comments
 
Articles
 
FAQ 
 
Contact
Links	
Barron GRE word list - R
rabble	 mob; noisy crowd
rabid	 of or suffering rabies; like a fanatic; extremely zealous; furious; CF. rabies: hydrophobia
rabies	 disease passed on by the bite of an infected animal (causing madness and death)
raconteur	 story-teller; one who tells stories with wit and skill
raffle	 lottery; V: award as a prize in a raffle; Ex. raffle off a new car
rag	 scrap of cloth; ADJ. ragged: old and torn; seeming unfinished and imperfect; Ex. ragged debut/performance
ragamuffin	 dirty child in torn clothes; person wearing tattered clothes
rail	 complain bitterly; scold; rant; Ex. the weaker railing against injustices
raiment	 clothing; garments; Ex. I have no raiment fit to wear.
rake	 immoral or dissolute person
rakish	 jaunty; stylish; sporty; morally corrupt; dissolute; Ex. He wore his hat at a rakish and jaunty angle.
rally	 come or bring together; call up or summon (forces, vital powers, etc.); revive or recuperate (after illness or difficulty); N: act of rallying; mass gathering
ram	 male sheep; V. strike or drive against with a heavy impact
ramble	 wander aimlessly (physically or mentally); digress
ramification	 branching out; subdivision; one branch of a system; one of the results following from an action or decision; Ex. ramifications of a business/the decision
ramify	 branch out; divide into branches or subdivisions
ramp	 slope; inclined plane or roadway (connecting two levels)
rampant	 growing or spreading uncontrollably; growing in profusion; unrestrained; Ex. rampant lawlessness/weed
rampart	 defensive mound of earth
ramshackle	 (of a building or vehicle) poorly constructed; rickety; falling apart
rancid	 having the odor of stale or decomposing fat; rank
rancor	 long-lasting hatred; bitterness; Ex. negotiation without rancor; ADJ. rancorous
random	 without definite purpose, plan, or aim; haphazard; Ex. random shots; Ex. chosen at random
rank	 offensive in odor or flavor
rankle	 irritate; fester; annoy
ransack	 search thoroughly; pillage (going through a place); Ex. Enemy soldiers ransacked the town.
rant	 speak violently or excitedly; rave; talk excitedly showing anger; scold; make a grandiloquent speech; Ex. The priest ranted about the devil.
rapacious	 voracious; ravenous; taking everything one can; excessively grasping; plundering; subsisting on live prey; Ex. rapacious birds
rapport	 close relationship; emotional closeness; harmony
rapt	 engrossed; absorbed; enchanted; Ex. rapt listener
rapture	 great joy and delight; ecstasy; ADJ. rapturous
rare	 (of air) thin in density; rarefied; Ex. rare air of the mountains
rarefied	 made less dense (of a gas); V. rarefy: make less dense; N. rarefaction
rasp	 (of a sound) grate on (eg. nerves); make a harsh noise; have an unpleasant effect; rub with something rough; Ex. The cat's tongue rasped my hand.
raspy	 making a harsh noise; grating; harsh
ratify	 approve formally; confirm; verify
ratiocination	 reasoning; act of drawing conclusions from premises; V. ratiocinate: reason logically
ration	 fixed portion; V: distribute as rations
rational	 (of a person) having reason; (of ideas) based on reason; logical
rationale	 fundamental reason or principle (on which a system or principle is based); fundamental reason or justification; grounds for an action
rationalize	 make rational; devise false reasons for (one's behavior); offer an excuse; give a plausible reason for an action in place of a true, less admirable ones; N. rationalization
raucous	 (of voice) harsh and unpleasant; (of people) disorderly and boisterous; Ex. raucous shouts
ravage	 devastate; plunder; despoil; Ex. crops ravaged by storms
rave	 overwhelmingly favorable review; V: talk wildly as if mad; Ex. raving lunatic
ravel	 fall apart into tangles; entangle; unravel or untwist
ravenous	 extremely hungry; voracious
ravine	 narrow valley with steep sides; gorge; CF. gully, canyon
raze	 destroy completely; Ex. raze the city to the ground
reactionary	 strongly opposed to social or political change; opposing progress; politically ultraconservative; N. OP. radical
realm	 kingdom; field or sphere; Ex. not within the realms of possibility
reaper	 one who harvests grain; Ex. the Grim Reaper; V. reap: cut and gather (crop); harvest a crop
rebate	 return of part of a payment; discount; V.
rebuff	 reject bluntly; snub; beat back; Ex. She rebuffed his invitation; N.
rebuke	 scold harshly; criticize severely
rebus	 representation of words in the form of pictures or symbols; puzzle in which pictures or letters stand for words; Ex. ``R U 18'' is a rebus for ``Are you 18''.
rebuttal	 refutation; response with contrary evidence; V. rebut: refute; disprove
recalcitrant	 disobedient or resisting authority even after being punished; obstinately stubborn; determined to resist authority; unruly; Ex. recalcitrant child
recant	 disclaim or disavow; retract a previous statement; openly confess error; Ex. recant one's faith/a statement
recapitulate	 summarize
recast	 reconstruct (a sentence, story, statue, etc.); fashion again
receptive	 quick or willing to receive (ideas, suggestions, etc.); Ex. receptive to the proposal
recess	 pause; temporary cessation; alcove; secret inner place; Ex. parliament in recess; V. CF. recessive
recession	 withdrawal; retreat; time of low economic activity
recidivism	 habitual return to crime (even after being punished); N. recidivist
recipient	 receiver
reciprocal	 mutual; given and received in return; exchangeable; interacting; Ex. reciprocal trade agreement
reciprocate	 do or give something in return; repay in kind; give or take mutually; interchange; move
recital	 act of reciting publicly; detailed account; performance of music or dance (by a solo performer)
recite	 repeat aloud (something learned); describe; Ex. recite his complaints; N. recitation
reckon	 count; calculate; regard as; think; suppose
recline	 lie down
recluse	 hermit; loner; ADJ. reclusive
reconcile	 make friendly again (after quarrel); make consistent (two ideas in opposition); correct inconsistencies; Ex. reconcile one's political principles with one's religious beliefs
recondite	 abstruse; not easily understood; profound; secret
reconnaissance	 survey of enemy by soldiers; reconnoitering; V. reconnoiter: make a preliminary inspection of (esp. to gather military information)
recount	 narrate or tell (a story); count over again
recourse	 resorting to help when in trouble; Ex. without recourse to
recreant	 disloyal; cowardly; N: disloyal and cowardly person
recrimination	 countercharges; V. recriminate
rectify	 set right; correct; CF. rect-: right
rectitude	 moral correctness; moral uprightness; moral virtue; correctness of judgment
recumbent	 reclining; lying down completely or in part
recuperate	 recover; return to health; regain; Ex. recuperate losses
recurrent	 occurring again and again
redolent	 odorous; fragrant; suggestive (of an odor); Ex. redolent of onions/mystery
redoubtable	 formidable; causing fear
redress	 remedy; compensation; Ex. seek redress for the damage to your car; V: put right; remedy or rectify (a wrong); make amends for
reduce	 diminish; bring to a weaker or more difficult condition; demote; lower in rank; separate into components by analysis; Ex. reduced to the ranks; Ex. reduce the house to rubble; N. reduction
redundant	 superfluous; more than is necessary; verbose; excessively wordy; repetitious
reek	 emit (an unpleasant odor or smoke); give off an unpleasant odor; give out smoke; Ex. reeking chimney; N: unpleasant odor; stench
refectory	 dining hall; room where meals are served (in a school)
referendum	 direct vote by all the people
refraction	 bending of a ray of light
refractory	 unmanageable; disobedient and stubborn; Ex. refractory horse
refrain	 abstain from; resist; forbear; N: chorus
refulgent	 effulgent; brilliant; brightly shining; gleaming; Ex. refulgent moon
refurbish	 renovate; make clean, bright, or fresh (make new) again; make bright by polishing; Ex. refurbish an old theater; CF. furbish: polish
refuse	 anything discarded or rejected as worthless; trash
refute	 disprove; prove to be false; N. refutation
regal	 royal; of a monarch; Ex. regal manner
regale	 entertain
regatta	 boat or yacht race
regeneration	 spiritual rebirth; Ex. regeneration of the prisoners; V. regenerate: give or obtain new life; reform spiritually
regent	 a person who governs in place of a ruler who is ill, absent, or still a child; ADJ. Ex. the Prince regent
regicide	 murder of a king or queen
regime	 method of system or government
regimen	 prescribed course of diet or exercise; prescribed diet and habits; Ex. daily regimen of a dancer
regiment	 military unit; V: subject to strict order; Ex. regimented society
rehabilitate	 restore to proper condition (health or useful life); restore the former rank of
reimburse	 repay; pay back
reinstate	 restore to a previous condition or position
reiterate	 repeat
rejoinder	 reply; retort; comeback; V. rejoin: say in reply
rejuvenate	 make young again
relapse	 return to a former state (esp. after improvement); N.
relegate	 put into a lower or worse place; banish to an inferior position; delegate; assign; Ex. relegate the old furniture to the children's room; Ex. relegated to the second division
relent	 become less severe; give in(surrender); ADJ. relentless: unyielding; continuously severe
relevant	 having importance; pertinent; referring to the case in hand; N. relevance, relevancy
relic	 surviving remnant (from an extinct culture); memento; keepsake; relics: corpse; Ex. ancient relics; Ex. relics of his travel; Ex. His relics are buried at X.
religious	 of religion; (of a person) pious; having reverence for a deity
relinquish	 give up something (with reluctance); yield; release; Ex. relinquish power/the claim to the land/his hold on my arm
relish	 enjoy; savor; N: enjoyment; zest
remediable	 reparable
reminiscence	 recollection; V. reminisce: recollect the past
reminiscent	 suggestive of something (in the past); of reminiscence
remiss	 negligent; careless about a duty
remission	 temporary moderation (of disease symptoms); remitting of a debt or punishment; cancelation of a debt; pardon; Ex. The disease went into remission; Ex. Christians pray for the remission of sins.
remit	 transmit (money) in payment; free someone from a debt or punishment
remittance	 remitting of money; amount of money remitted
remnant	 remainder
remonstrate	 protest; objection; V. remonstrate: say in protest
remorse	 deep regret for wrongdoing; guilt; self-reproach
remunerative	 (of work) compensating; rewarding; profitable; well-paid; V. remunerate: reward; pay (someone) for work or trouble
rend	 split; tear apart; N. rent; CF. heartrending: causing deep sorrow
render	 give; deliver; provide; represent in verbal or artistic form; depict; perform; make; translate; Ex. render the song beautifully
rendezvous	 meeting place; meeting at a set time or place; V.
rendition	 rendering; translation; artistic interpretation of a song, etc
renegade	 deserter; traitor; ADJ.
renege	 break a promise; deny; go back on; Ex. renege on the contract/paying off the debt
renounce	 abandon; give up (by formal announcement); disown; repudiate; Ex. renounce one's claim to the property/one's religion; N. renunciation
renovate	 restore to good condition; renew
renown	 fame; ADJ. renowned
rent	 tear made by rending; rip; split
reparable	 capable of being repaired
reparation	 compensation (for loss or wrong); amends; Ex. make reparation for the damage; CF. repair
repartee	 quick clever reply
repast	 meal; feast; banquet
repeal	 revoke; annul
repel	 drive away; disgust; Ex. repel the attack/moisture; Ex. repelled by the dirty room; CF. repulsion
repellent	 driving away; disgusting; offensive; repulsive; unattractive; N.
repercussion	 rebound; reaction; reverberation; Ex. serious repercussion
repertoire	 list of works of music, drama, etc., a performer is prepared to present; CF. repertory
repine	 fret; complain; be annoyed; Ex. repine over the undone work
replenish	 fill up again
replete	 fully filled; filled to the brim or to the point of being stuffed; abundantly supplied; Ex. report replete with errors
replica	 copy
replicate	 reproduce; duplicate
repose	 resting; state of being at rest; calmness; V: lie at rest; relax; put or place; Ex. repose our hopes in a single man
repository	 storehouse
reprehensible	 deserving blame; blameworthy; V. reprehend: blame
representational	 (of a style of art) showing things as they actually appear in real life
repress	 hold back (the natural expression of); restrain; crush; oppress; Ex. repressed child; Ex. repress a laugh/rebellion
reprieve	 postponement or cancelation of a punishment; temporary stay; V: postpone or cancel the punishment of
reprimand	 reprove severely; rebuke; N.
reprisal	 retaliation
reprise	 musical repetition; repeating of a piece of music; repeat performance; recurrent action; Ex. reprise in the finale; Ex. constant reprises
reproach	 blame (not angrily but sadly); express disapproval or disappointment; N. ADJ. reproachful
reprobate	 morally disapproved person; person hardened in sin, devoid of a sense of decency; CF. disapproved by God ?
reprobation	 severe disapproval; CF. approbation
reprove	 censure; rebuke; N. reproof
repudiate	 disown; disavow; deny
repugnance	 disgust; strong dislike; loathing; ADJ. repugnant: arousing disgust; repulsive
repulse	 reject with rudeness or coldness (an offer or friendship); drive back (an enemy attack); CF. repulse $\neq$ cause repulsion
repulsion	 distaste; disgust; act of driving back; ADJ. repulsive: causing disgust; tending to drive away; V. repel (not `repulse')
reputable	 respectable; having a good reputation
reputed	 supposed; Ex. reputed father of the child; V. repute: consider; N. repute: reputation; esteem
requiem	 mass for the dead; dirge
requisite	 necessary requirement; something required; ADJ: required; necessary
requisition	 formal demand or request; Ex. requisition for more computing equipment; V.
requite	 make return for; repay; reciprocate; revenge; N. requittal
rescind	 repeal; annul; cancel (a law, decision, or agreement)
resentment	 indignation; bitterness; displeasure; V. resent: feel anger about
reserve	 self-control; self-restraint; formal but distant manner; reticence; Ex. without reserve: freely and openly; ADJ. reserved: shy and uncommunicative
residual	 remaining; left over; of a residue; N: residue
residue	 remainder; balance
resign	 give up (a position, right, or claim); submit (oneself) passively
resignation	 patiently submissiveness; statement that one is quitting a job; ADJ. resigned: acquiescent
resilient	 elastic; having the power of springing back; able to recover quickly (as from misfortune)
resolution	 determination; resoluteness; ADJ. resolute: firm or determined in purpose
resolve	 decide; settle; solve; separate; make a determined decision; N. resolution
resonant	 (of a sound) echoing; resounding(sounding loudly); deep and full in sound; producing resonance; Ex. resonant voice; N. resonance
resort	 turn to for help; Ex. resort to violence; N.
resound	 (of a place) be filled with sound; (of a sound) sound loudly; sound back; echo; Ex. hall resounded with laughter
resourceful	 clever and imaginative (in dealing with difficult situations); N. resource, resourcefulness
respiration	 breathing; exhalation; ADJ. respiratory
respite	 time for rest; interval of relief; delay in punishment; reprieve
resplendent	 brilliant; splendid in appearance; dazzling; glorious
responsiveness	 state of reacting readily to appeals, orders, etc.; ADJ. responsive: readily reacting; Ex. responsive to treatment
restitution	 returning something (lost or stolen) to the rightful owner; reparation; indemnification; compensation for loss, damage, or injury
restive	 impatiently restless (induced by external coercion or restriction); restlessly impatient; obstinately resisting control; Ex. restive horses because of wolves; CF. not a general synonym for `restless'
restraint	 moderation or self-control; controlling force; restriction
resumption	 taking up again; recommencement; V. resume: begin or take up again; take or occupy again; Ex. Kindly resume your seats.
resurge	 rise again; flow to and fro; N. resurgence; ADJ. resurgent: (of ideas or beliefs) experiencing revival; surging again
resurrect	 revive
resuscitate	 revive; bring back to life or consciousness; Ex. resuscitate the drowned child
retain	 keep; maintain possession of; employ (esp. a lawyer or advisor); N. retainer: servant; fee paid to retain an advisor
retaliate	 repay in kind (usually for bad treatment); V. retaliate
retard	 delay (in development); ADJ. retarded: (as of a child) slower in development
retentive	 holding; able to retain things (esp. facts in the mind); having a good memory
reticent	 inclined to silence; uncommunicative; reserved; Ex. He was reticent about the reasons; N. reticence
retinue	 following; attendants
retiring	 shy and reserved (of a person); modest; Ex. her retiring personality
retort	 quick sharp reply; V.
retract	 withdraw; take back; draw back; Ex. retract a statement/an offer/claws; N. retraction; CF. retractile
retrench	 cut down; cut down expenses; economize
retribution	 deserved punishment for wrongdoing; punishment for offenses; compensation; vengeance; CF. pay back
retrieve	 recover; put right; find and bring in; regain; Ex. retrieve the situation
retroactive	 taking effect before its enactment (as a law) or imposition (as a tax); (of a law) having effect on the past as well as the future
retrograde	 go backwards; recede; degenerate; deteriorate; ADJ.
retrospective	 looking back on the past; N. retrospection; V. retrospect
revelry	 boisterous merrymaking; V. revel: engage boisterous festivities; enjoy greatly; N: boisterous festivity or celebration
reverberate	 echo repeatedly; resound; Ex. The thunder reverberated across the valley.
reverend	 deserving reverence; N: priest
reverent	 respectful; worshipful; V. revere: regard with reverence; N. reverence: profound respect
reverie	 daydream; abstracted musing
revert	 relapse; backslide; turn back to; return to the former owner; N. reversion
revile	 attack with abusive language; vilify(slander)
revoke	 cancel; retract; CF. irrevocable
revulsion	 sudden strong feeling of disgust; sudden violent change of feeling; negative reaction; Ex. revulsion from the scenes of torture
rhapsodize	 speak or write in an exaggeratedly enthusiastic manner; Ex. rhapsodize over the beauty of the scenery
rhapsody	 excessively enthusiastic expression of feeling; musical composition of irregular form (as if made up as one plays it)
rhetoric	 art of effective communication; art of using language effectively and persuasively; style of speaking or writing; grandiloquent language; Ex. political rhetoric; ADJ. rhetorical; CF. rhetorical question: question to which no answer is expected as
ribald	 marked by vulgar lewd humor; wanton; profane; N. ribaldry: ribald language or joke
rickety	 (of buildings) likely to break or fall apart; of rickets; CF. rickets; CF. vitamin D
riddle	 pierce with holes; permeate or spread throughout; Ex. The gunman riddled the car with bullets; Ex. The whole report is riddled with errors; N. large sieve (separating earth from stone)
rider	 amendment or clause added to a legislative bill
rife	 (of something bad) widespread; abundant; current
rift	 narrow opening in a large mass; break in a friendly relation; Ex. through a rift in the clouds; OP. reconcilation
rig	 arrangement of masts and sails; V: equip (a ship) with rigging; ADJ. rigging: ropes that hold up a ship's sails
righteous	 morally upright; just
rightful	 legally correct; Ex. rightful owner
rigid	 hard and unbending; stiff and unyielding; fixed in behavior or views; strict; rigorous; Ex. rigid rule
rigor	 severity; Ex. rigors of the Russian winter
rile	 irritate; vex; muddy
rip	 tear or be torn quickly and violently; Ex. The sail ripped under the force of the wind; N.
rivet	 metal pin used for fastening metal plates together; V: fasten with a rivet; engross
riveting	 holding one's attention; absorbing; engrossing
rivulet	 small stream; CF. rill < rivulet < river
robust	 strong; vigorous
rococo	 ornate; highly decorated; N. CF. 18th century
roil	 make liquids murky by stirring up sediment; disturb
rolling	 (of land) rising and falling in long gentle slopes; happening continuously by stages; Ex. rolling devolution of power to local governments
romp	 play or frolic boisterously; gambol; N.
rooster	 cock; adult male chicken
roseate	 rosy; optimistic; Ex. roseate views
roster	 list (of names)
rostrum	 raised platform for speech-making; pulpit
rote	 repetition; memorization through repetition without understanding; Ex. learn poetry by rote
rotund	 (of a person) fat and round
rotunda	 circular building or hall covered with a dome
rotundity	 roundness; sonorousness of speech
rou\'e	 lecherous man
rousing	 lively; inducing excitement; stirring; V. rouse: waken; arouse from sleep or depression; excite; stir up
rout	 put to rout; stampede; drive out; N: complete defeat and disorderly retreat
rubble	 fragments (esp. from a destroyed building)
rubric	 title or heading (in red print); directions for religious ceremony; protocol
ruddy	 reddish; (of the face) reddish and healthy-looking
rudimentary	 elementary; not developed; crude; N. rudiment: fundamental element or principle; Ex. rudiments of the language
rue	 regret; lament; mourn; Ex. He will rue the day; N. ADJ. rueful
ruffian	 violent scoundrel; bully
rumble	 make or move with a deep rolling sound (as thunder or stomach)
ruminant	 animal that ruminates; ADJ.
ruminate	 chew over and over (mentally or, like cows, physically); mull over(ponder)
rummage	 ransack; thoroughly search
run-down	 (of a place) dilapidated; in a bad condition; (of a person) weak or exhausted
runic	 mysterious; set down in an ancient alphabet; N. rune: one of the letters of an alphabet used by ancient Germanic peoples (cut on stone or wood); magic charm
ruse	 trick to deceive; stratagem
rustic	 pertaining to country people; unsophisticated; simple; crude; uncouth; (of furniture) rough with the bark left on; N. rural person; rustic person
rusticate	 banish to the country; dwell in the country
rustle	 make slight sounds like silk moving or being rubbed together
ruthless	 pitiless; merciless; cruel