saboteur	 one who commits sabotage; destroyer of property; N. sabotage: destruction of property (usually carried out secretly)
saccharine	 cloying sweet; characteristic of sugar or saccharin
sacrilegious	 desecrating; profane; N. sacrilege: desecration, misuse, or theft of something sacred
sacrosanct	 invioably sacred; most sacred; inviolable
sadistic	 inclined to cruelty; N. sadism: delight in cruelty
saga	 Scandinavian myth; any legend; long heroic narrative
sagacious	 wise; perceptive; shrewd; having insight; N. sagacity
sage	 person celebrated for wisdom; wise person; ADJ: wise
salacious	 lascivious; lustful; Ex. salacious monk
salient	 prominent; projecting beyond a line; conspicuous; Ex. salient features
saline	 salty
sallow	 (of the skin) yellowish and unhealthy-looking; sickly in color; Ex. sallow complexion due to jaundice
salubrious	 healthful; conducive to health or well-being; socially desirable; Ex. salubrious area; CF. health
salutary	 tending to improve; beneficial; wholesome; Ex. The punishment had a salutary effect on the boy; CF. health
salvage	 rescue (goods or property) from loss; N: saving; property saved
sanctimonious	 displaying ostentatious or hypocritical devoutness; N. sanctimony: hypocritical piety
sanction	 approve; ratify; N: permission; penalty intended to enforce compliance
sanctuary	 place of refuge; shelter; shrine; holy place; Ex. The outlaw was granted sanctuary in the church.
sanguinary	 bloody; with much bloodshed
sanguine	 optimistic; cheerful; hopeful; of the color of blood; red
sap	 diminish; weaken; undermine the foundations of (a fortification); Ex. The element kryptonite sapped his strength.
sarcasm	 cutting ironic remark; scornful remarks; stinging rebuke; ADJ. sarcastic
sardonic	 scornfully mocking; disdainful; sarcastic; cynical; Ex. sardonic smile
sartorial	 pertaining to tailors or tailoring; Ex. a man of great sartorial elegance; CF. sartor: tailor
sate	 satisfy to the full; satisfy to excess; cloy
satellite	 small body revolving around a larger one
satiate	 satisfy fully (physical needs such as hunger); sate; N. satiety: condition of being satiated
satire	 form of literature in which irony, sarcasm, and ridicule are employed to attack human vice and folly
satirical	 using satire; mocking
saturate	 soak thoroughly; imbue; impregnate; charge; fill to capacity
saturnine	 morose; gloomy; Ex. Do not be misled by his saturnine countenance.
satyr	 half-human, half-bestial being in the court of Dionysus (resembling a goat), portrayed as wanton(unrestrained) and cunning; lecher; CF. faun; CF. goat: lecherous man
saunter	 stroll(go for a leisurely walk) slowly; N.
savant	 scholar; learned person; CF. savoir: know
savor	 enjoy; have a distinctive flavor, smell, or quality; N: taste or smell; distinctive quality
savory	 pleasant in taste; tasty; pleasing, attractive, or agreeable; Ex. savory reputation
scabbard	 case for a sword blade; sheath
scad	 a great quantity; Ex. scads of clothes
scaffold	 temporary platform for workers (to work at heights above the ground); bracing framework; platform for execution
scale	 climb up; ascend; remove or come off in scales; N: flake of epidermis; ascending or descending series of musical tones
scanty	 meager; insufficient
scapegoat	 someone who bears the blame for others; whipping boy; CF. escape+goat
scavenge	 hunt through discarded materials for usable items or food; search, especially for food; N. scavenger: one who scavenges; animal that feeds on refuse and carrion
scenario	 plot outline; screenplay(script for a movie); opera libretto; outline of possible future events
schematic	 of a schema or scheme; relating to an outline or diagram; using a system of symbols; N. schema: diagrammatic representation; outline
scheme	 systematic plan; plot; clever dishonest plan; orderly arrangement of elements; Ex. health insurance scheme; Ex. a scheme to escape taxes; Ex. a color scheme; Ex. a story with no scheme; V: contrive a scheme
schism	 division into factions (esp. within a religious body); split
scholarly	 full of learning; erudite; like a scholar; Ex. scholarly journal
scintilla	 trace; minute amount; shred; least bit; Ex. There is not a scintilla of truth; CF. spark
scintillate	 sparkle; flash; be animated; be full of life; Ex. scintillating conversation
scion	 detached plant shoot used in grafting; descendant
scoff	 laugh (at); mock; ridicule; Ex. scoff at their threats
scorch	 sear; N.
score	 number of points; written form of a musical composition; reason; group of 20; notch or incision; Ex. full/vocal score; Ex. Don't worry on that score; V: mark with lines or notches; Ex. score the paper to make it easy to fold
scotch	 stamp out(put an end to); thwart; hinder; Ex. scotch the rumor; CF. cut; CF. ??? ??? ??
scourge	 lash; whip (formerly used for punishment); source of severe punishment; V: whip; afflict
scowl	 frown angrily; N: angry frown
scrap	 small bit or fragment; discarded waste material; fight; Ex. a scrap of paper/cloth; V: break into parts for disposal; discard as worthless; fight; quarrel
scrappy	 quarrelsome
scraps	 leftover food
screech	 unpleasant high sharp sound; shriek; V.
scrimmage	 disorderly fight between two or more people
scruple	 hesitate for ethical reasons; fret about; Ex. She did not scruple to read his diary; N: uneasy feeling arising from conscience; conscience
scrupulous	 conscientious; extremely thorough; Ex. scrupulous worker
scrutinize	 examine closely and critically; N. scrutiny
scuffle	 struggle confusedly; move off in a confused hurry; N. CF. scuffling twins ?
scurrilous	 abusive; obscene; indecent; Ex. scurrilous remark
scurry	 move hastily; hurry; move briskly
scurvy	 contemptible; despicable; N: disease caused by deficiency of Vitamin C
scuttle	 sink (a ship) by cutting holes in the hull; scrap; discard; N: small hatch in a ship's deck or hull
seamy	 sordid; base; filthy; unwholesome; Ex. seamy side of city life
sear	 burn the surface of; char or burn; brand; parch; cause (a plant) to wither
season	 enhance the flavor of by adding a spice, etc.; inure; harden; N. seasoning: something used in seasoning
seasonable	 occurring at the proper time or season; opportune; Ex. seasonable intervention in the dispute
seasonal	 of a particular season; Ex. seasonal rise in employment
seasoned	 experienced
secession	 withdrawal; V. secede: withdraw formally from membership
seclusion	 isolation; solitude; V. seclude: set apart from others; isolate
secrete	 conceal; hide away or cache; produce and release a substance into an organism; CF. secretive
sect	 separate religious body; faction; group of people with common beliefs within a larger group
sectarian	 of a sect; narrow-minded; parochial; N: member of a sect; narrow-minded person
secular	 worldly; not pertaining to church matters or religion; temporal
sedate	 composed (with no excitement); grave; V: administer a sedative to; CF. sedative
sedentary	 requiring sitting; done while sitting; not moving from one place to another; settled; Ex. sedentary job/population
sedition	 conduct or language inciting rebellion; rebellion; resistance to authority; insubordination; ADJ. seditious
seduce	 lead away from proper conduct; entice; ADJ. seductive
sedulous	 diligent; assiduous; paying attention; N. sedulity
seedy	 run-down; decrepit; disreputable; having many seeds; Ex. seedy downtown hotel
seemly	 (of behavior) proper; appropriate
seep	 pass slowly through small openings; ooze; trickle; N. seepage
seethe	 be violently disturbed; boil; (of a liquid) move about wildly as if boiling; Ex. The nation was seething with discontent.
seine	 seine net; net for catching fish
seismic	 pertaining to earthquakes
selective	 careful in choosing; having an effect only on certain things; not general; Ex. eclectic weed killer
self-indulgence	 excessive indulgence of one's own desire
self-righteous	 sure of one's own righteousness; moralistic
semblance	 outward appearance; guise; Ex. We called in the troops to bring a/some semblance of order to the city.
seminal	 related to seed or semen; germinal; creative; providing a basis for further development; influencing future developments; Ex. seminal research in a new field
seminary	 school for training future ministers; secondary school, especially for young women
senility	 old age; feeblemindedness of old age; ADJ. senile: resulting from old age; showing the weakness of body or mind from old age; Ex. senile dementia
sensitization	 process of being made sensitive or acutely responsive to an external agent or substance; V. sensitize: make or become sensitive
sensual	 devoted to the pleasures of the sense; carnal; voluptuous; Ex. sensual woman/curves/lips
sensuous	 giving pleasure to the senses; pertaining to the physical senses; operating through the senses; sensuous feeling of soft velvet on the skin
sententious	 pithy; terse; concise; aphoristic
sentient	 capable of sensation and conscious; aware; sensitive; Ex. sentient creature; N. sentience
sentimental	 swayed by sentiment; appealing to the sentiments
sentinel	 sentry; lookout
septic	 of or causing sepsis; putrid; producing putrefaction; N. sepsis: poisoning of part of the body (producing pus)
sepulcher	 tomb; V: place in a sepulcher; ADJ. sepulchral
sequester	 isolate; segregate; seclude; retire from public life
sere	 sear; parched; dry
serendipity	 gift for finding valuable things by accident; accidental good fortune or luck; CF. The Three Princes of Serendip
serenity	 calmness; placidity; ADJ. serene
serpentine	 winding; twisting; of or like a serpent; Ex. serpentine course of the river; N. serpent: snake
serrated	 having a sawtoothed edge; Ex. serrated leaf
servile	 slavish; cringing; N. servility
servitude	 slavery; compulsory labor imposed as a punishment
sever	 separate; cut off (a part) from a whole; break up (a relationship); N. severance; CF. severance pay: extra pay given an employee upon leaving a position
severity	 harshness; intensity; sternness; austerity; ADJ. severe: harsh; strict; extremely violent or intense
sextant	 navigation tool used to determine a ship's latitude and longitude (by measuring the altitudes of stars)
shack	 crude cabin
shackle	 chain; fetter; confine with shackles; N.
shade	 slight difference in degree; nuance; degree of color; Ex. shades of meaning/grey
sham	 pretend; feign; ADJ: not genuine; fake; Ex. sham jewelry; N: something that is not what it appears; impostor; pretense; Ex. The agreement was a sham.
shambles	 (place or scene of) complete disorder or ruin; wreck; mess; Ex. After the hurricane, the coast was a shambles.
Shangri-la	 imaginary remote paradise on earth; CF. Lost Horizon
shard	 fragment generally of broken pottery (glass, clay bowl, or cup)
shaving	 very thin piece, usually of wood (cut from a surface with a sharp blade)
sheaf	 bundle of stalks of grain; any bundle of things tied together
shear	 remove (fleece or hair) by cutting; remove the hair or fleece from; cut with or as if with shears; N: shears; pair of scissors
sheathe	 place into a case; insert into or provide with a sheath; Ex. He sheathed his dagger; N. sheath: case for a blade
shed	 small roofed structure for storage and shelter; V: pour forth; lose by natural process; repel without allowing penetration; radiate; cast; Ex. shed tears/light/water/skin/leaves
sheer	 pure; thin and transparent; very steep
sherbet	 flavored dessert ice
shift	 change position or place; exchange (one thing) for another; change in direction or position; Ex. shift the stolen goods; N. group of workers which takes turns with other groups; working period of such a group
shimmer	 shine with a flickering light; glimmer intermittently; Ex. The moonlight shimmered on the water; N.
shirk	 avoid (responsibility, work, etc.); malinger
shoddy	 made of inferior material; sham; not genuine; inferior; dishonest; Ex. shoddy goods/trick
shoot	 new growth from a plant
shove	 push forward; push roughly; Ex. pushing and shoving to get on the bus; N.
shrew	 scolding woman; very small mouselike animal
shrewd	 clever; astute
shrivel	 make or become shrunken and wrinkled (often by drying)
shudder	 shake uncontrollably; tremble; V.
shuffle	 mix together; jumble; move (something) from one place to another; slide (the feet) along the ground while walking; Ex. shuffle papers from one pile to another; N.
shun	 keep away from; avoid deliberately; Ex. She has been shunned by her neighbors.
shunt	 move (a railway train) from one track to another; turn aside; divert; sidetrack; Ex. shunt traffic around an accident; N.
shyster	 lawyer using questionable methods; unscrupulous practioner
sibling	 brother or sister
sibylline	 prophetic; oracular; N. sibyl: woman prophet (in the ancient world)
sidereal	 relating to stars; Ex. sidereal day
sidetrack	 switch (a railroad car) to a siding; divert from a main issue; N. CF. siding: short section of railroad track connected by switches with a main track
sift	 put through a sieve to separate fine from coarse particles; sort or examine carefully
significant	 expressing a meaning; important; Ex. significant smile; N. significance: importance; meaning; V. signify: denote; mean; signal; make known; matter; be significant
silt	 sediment deposited by running water (at the entrance to a harbor or by a bend in a river)
simian	 monkeylike; N: ape or monkey
simile	 comparison of one thing with another, using the word like or as
simper	 smirk; smile in a silly way; smile affectedly
simplistic	 oversimplified
simulate	 feign; imitate
sinecure	 well-paid position with little responsibility; CF. sine cure: without care; CF. San Serif
sinewy	 (of meat) tough; strong and firm; muscular; N. sinew: tendon; strong cord connecting a muscle to a bone
singular	 being only one; individual; unique; extraordinary; odd; Ex. singular beauty/behavior
sinister	 evil; ominous
sinuous	 twisting; winding; bending in and out; not morally honest
siren	 apparatus for making sounds; womanlike creature
skeptic	 sceptic; doubter; person who suspends judgment until he has examined the evidence supporting a point of view; ADJ. skeptical; N. skepticism; scepticism
skiff	 small light sailboat or rowboat
skim	 read or glance through quickly; touch lightly in passing; brush; remove from the surface of a liquid
skimp	 provide or use scantily; live very economically; Ex. skimp on necessities; ADJ. skimpy: inadequate in amount; scanty; stingy; niggardly
skinflint	 miser; stingy person
skirmish	 minor fight; minor battle in war; V.
skittish	 inconstant; capricious; frivolous; not serious; Ex. charming but skittish young woman; CF. skit
skulduggery(skullduggery)	 dishonest behavior or action; Ex. skulduggery in the election
skulk	 move furtively and secretly; Ex. He skulked through the less fashionable sections of the city.
slack	 moving slowly; sluggish; inactive; (of a rope) loose; negligent; lax; Ex. slack season; Ex. slack in one's work; N. V.
slacken	 slow up; loosen; make or become slack
slag	 glassy residue from smelting metal; dross; waste matter
slake	 satisfy (thirst); quench; sate
slander	 defamation; utterance of false and malicious statements; V. ADJ. slanderous
slap	 hit quickly with the flat part of the hand; N. CF. smack
slapdash	 hasty and careless; haphazard; sloppy(carelessly done)
slaughter	 killing of animals for food; massacre; V: butcher (animals) for food; kill in large numbers
slavish	 of or like a slave; servile; showing no originality; copied very closely; Ex. slavish devotion/copy of the original
sleazy	 shabby and dirty; flimsy; insubstantial; Ex. sleazy back-street hotel/fabric
sledge	 large sled drawn by work animals
sleek	 smooth and shining (as from good health); V.
sleeper	 one that achieves unexpected success; something originally of little value or importance that in time becomes very valuable
sleigh	 large vehicle drawn by a horse over snow or ice
sleight	 dexterity; CF. sleight of hand: legerdemain; quickness of the hands in doing tricks
slew	 large quantity or number; Ex. slew of errands left
slick	 make smooth or glossy; N: smooth surface; Ex. oil slick; ADJ: smooth; glossy; deftly executed; adroit; glib
slight	 insult to one's dignity; snub; V: treat as if of small importance; insult; snub; ADJ. small in size; of small importance
slink	 move furtively; ADJ. slinky: stealthy; furtive; sneaky (as in ambush)
slipshod	 slovenly; careless; sloppy; untidy; shabby; Ex. slipshod work
slither	 slip or slide
sloth	 slow moving tree-dwelling mammal; laziness; ADJ. slothful: lazy; indolent
slough	 (of a snake) shed or cast off (dead outer skin); N: outer layer that is shed
slovenly	 untidy; careless in work habits; slipshod; N. sloven: one who is habitually untidy or careless
sluggard	 lazy person
sluggish	 lazy; slow; inactive; lethargic; CF. slug: nail with no shell
sluice	 artificial channel for directing or controlling the flow of water (with a gate to regulate the flow)
slur	 pronounce indistinctly; speak indistinctly; mumble
sly	 clever in deceiving; secretive; not telling one's intentions
smart	 intelligent; quick and energetic; fashionable; Ex. smart pace/restaurant; V: cause or feel a sharp pain; N: smarting pain
smattering	 slight knowledge; small scattered number or amount; Ex. smattering of German
smear	 spread or cover with a sticky substance; N: mark made by smearing
smelt	 melt (ore) for separating and removing the metal; melt or blend ores changing their chemical composition
smirk	 conceited smile; offensively self-satisfied smile (often at someone else's misfortune); V.
smolder	 smoulder; burn slowly without flame; be liable to break out at any moment; exist in a suppressed state; Ex. smoldering anger
smother	 kill from lack of air; suppress; cover thickly; Ex. smothered in little stickers
smudge	 dirty mark with unclear edges made by rubbing; V.
smug	 self-satisfied; complacent
sneak	 move, give, or take in a quiet, stealthy way; N: one who sneaks; ADJ. sneaky
snicker	 half-stifled(suppressed) laugh; V.
snip	 short quick cut with scissors; V: cut with scissors
snivel	 complain or whine tearfully; run at the nose; snuffle; Ex. Don't come back sniveling to me.
snub	 ignore or behave coldly toward; Ex. I made a suggestion but she snubbed me; N.
snuffle	 sniffle; sniff repeatedly (in order to keep liquid from running out of the nose)
soar	 rise or fly high in the air; Ex. The rocket soared into the sky.
sober	 serious; solemn; not drunken; abstemious or temperate; V: make or become sober
sobriety	 moderation (especially regarding indulgence in alcohol); seriousness
sodden	 thoroughly soaked; dull or stupid as if from drink
sojourn	 temporary stay; V: stay for a time
solace	 comfort in sorrow or trouble; consolation; V: comfort or console in time of sorrow or trouble
solder	 repair or make whole by using a metal alloy; N: metal alloy (usually tin and lead) used in the molten state to join metallic parts
solecism	 nonstandard grammatical construction; construction that is flagrantly incorrect grammatically; violation of social etiquette
solemnity	 seriousness; gravity
solicit	 entreat; request earnestly; seek to obtain; Ex. solicit votes; CF. solicitor: one who solicits; chief law officer
solicitor	 lawyer in the lower court of law
solicitous	 anxious; worried; concerned; eager; Ex. solicitous to do something; N. solicitude
soliloquy	 talking to oneself (esp. in a play); CF. monologue: soliloquy; long speech by one person (often monopolizing a conversation)
solitude	 state of being alone; seclusion; ADJ. solitary: existing or living alone (esp. by choice); remote or secluded; single; sole; Ex. solitary life/inn; Ex. no solitary piece of proof
solstice	 point or time at which the sun is farthest from the equator
soluble	 able to be dissolved in a liquid; able to be worked out or solved
solvent	 substance that dissolves another; ADJ: capable of dissolving another substance
somatic	 pertaining to the body; bodily; physical
somber	 dark; gloomy; melancholy; depressing; CF. shadow
somnambulist	 sleepwalker; V. somnambulate; N. somnambulism
somnolent	 half asleep; drowsy; N. somnolence
sonic	 of sound or its speed in air; CF. subsonic, supersonic
sonnet	 14-line poetic verse form with a fixed rhyme pattern
sonorous	 resonant; producing a full deep sound; producing sound
soothsayer	 one who foretells the future
sophist	 teacher of philosophy; quibbler; employer of fallacious reasoning; N. sophism: plausible but fallacious argument
sophisticated	 worldly wise and urbane; refined; complex; N. sophistication; V. sophisticate
sophistry	 seemingly plausible but fallacious reasoning; sophism
sophomoric	 immature; half-baked; like a sophomore
soporific	 sleep-causing; marked by sleepiness; drowsy
sordid	 filthy; foul; base; vile; Ex. sordid bed/story
sound	 in good condition; showing good judgment or good sense; thorough; complete; Ex. sound mind/investment/training
sour	 having a sharp or acid taste; acid; tart; bad-tempered; V.
sovereign	 ruler in a monarchy; ADJ: (of a country) independent and self-governing; having supreme power; supreme; excellent
sovereignty	 complete independence and self-government (of a country); supremacy of authority; power to govern
sow	 plant or scatter seed
spangle	 small shiny metallic piece sewn to clothing for ornamentation
spare	 give; use; refrain from harming; save from experiencing; exempt; Ex. spare me 5 minutes; Ex. Take this money and spare my life; Ex. The emperor was spared the onus; ADJ: kept in reserve; free for other use; unoccupied; Ex. spare time
sparse	 not thick; thinly scattered; scanty
Spartan	 without attention to comfort; lacking luxury and comfort; sternly disciplined; Ex. spartan living condition/life
spasmodic	 fitful; periodic; of or like a spasm; N. spasm: sudden involuntary muscular contraction; sudden burst of energy or emotion
spat	 squabble; minor dispute; minor quarrel
spate	 sudden flood or rush; Ex. spate of accidents
spatial	 relating to space
spatula	 broad-bladed instrument used for spreading or mixing
spawn	 lay eggs (in large numbers); produce offspring (in large numbers); N: eggs of aquatic animals
specious	 seemingly reasonable but incorrect; misleading (often intentionally)
speck	 small piece or mark; Ex. speck of dust in the eye
spectral	 ghostly; N. specter: spectre; ghost; phantom
spectrum	 colored band produced when a beam of light passes through a prism; broad and continuous range; Ex. whole spectrum of modern thoughts
speechless	 unable for the moment to speak (because of strong feeling); Ex. speechless with anger
spendthrift	 someone who wastes money; CF. thrift: accumulated wealth
sphinx-like	 enigmatic; mysterious
spin	 rotate swiftly; make (thread) by twisting (cotton, wool, etc.); N.
splice	 join together end to end to make one continuous length; fasten together; unite; Ex. splice two strips of tape; N.
spoilsport	 one who spoils the pleasure of others
spontaneity	 lack of premeditation; naturalness; freedom from constraint; ADJ. spontaneous: self-generated; unpremeditated; happening without being planned
spoof	 parody
spoonerism	 accidental transposition of sounds in successive words; Ex. ``Let me sew you to your sheet'' for ``Let me show you to your seat''; CF. William Spooner
sporadic	 occurring irregularly; intermittent
sportive	 playful; frolicsome; merry; CF. sport: play or frolic; CF. sportsmanlike
sprout	 begin to grow; give off shoots or buds; N: new growth on a plant; shoot
spruce	 neat and trim in appearance; smart; Ex. Be spruce for your job interview; V.
spry	 (esp. of older people) vigorously active; nimble
spurious	 false; counterfeit; forged; illogical; Ex. spurious arguments
spurn	 reject disdainfully; scorn; Ex. She spurned all offers of help.
squabble	 minor quarrel; bickering; V: engage in a minor quarrel; Ex. squabbling children
squalor	 condition of being squalid; filth; degradation; dirty neglected state; ADJ. squalid: dirty; sordid; morally repulsive; Ex. squalid story
squander	 waste; spend foolishly
squash	 crush; quash; suppress
squat	 short and thick; stocky; Ex. ugly squat tower; V. N.
squeamish	 easily shocked or sickened by unpleasant things; fastidious; Ex. A nurse should not be squeamish.
squelch	 produce a splashing sound (when stepping through mud); crush; squash;
staccato	 played in an abrupt manner; marked by abrupt sharp sound; Ex. staccato applause
stagnant	 (of water) not flowing (often bad-smelling); motionless; stale; not developing; inactive; dull; Ex. stagnant industrial output
staid	 serious and sedate; sober; Ex. staid during the funeral ceremony
stalemate	 deadlock; situation in which further action is blocked
stalwart	 physically strong; brawny; steadfast; strong in mind or determination; Ex. stalwart supporter; N: stalwart follower
stamina	 power of endurance; strength; staying power
stammer	 speak with involuntarily pauses or repetitions
stamp	 step on heavily (so as to crush or extinguish); put an end to; imprint or impress with a mark, design, or seal; shape with a die; characterize; Ex. machine stamping out car bodies; Ex. newspaper stamping him as a liar; N. stamping; implement us
stampede	 sudden frenzied rush (of panic-stricken animals or people); V: participate in or cause stampede; Ex. stampede before the price rises
stanch	 stop or check flow of blood; Ex. stanch the gushing wound
standstill	 condition of no movement or activity; stop
stanza	 division of a poem (composed of two or more lines)
start	 move suddenly or involuntarily; Ex. start at the sight of a snake
stately	 formal; ceremonious; grand in style or size; majestic
static	 having no motion; unchanging; lacking development; N. stasis: stable state
statute	 law enacted by the legislature
statutory	 created by statute or legislative action; regulated by statute; Ex. statutory age limit
steadfast	 steadily loyal; unswerving; steady
stealth	 action of moving secretly or unseen; slyness; sneakiness; secretiveness; ADJ. stealthy
steep	 soak; saturate; Ex. steep the fabric in the dye bath; ADJ: precipitous
stellar	 pertaining to the stars; of a star performer; outstanding; Ex. stellar attraction of the entire performance
stem	 stop or check (the flow of); Ex. stem the bleeding from the slashed artery; N: main axis of a plant; stalk
stem_from	 arise from; originate from
stench	 strong foul odor; reek; stink
stentorian	 (of the voice) extremely loud; CF. Stentor: a loud herald in the Iliad
stereotype	 one regarded as embodying a set image or type; fixed and unvarying representation; standardized mental picture often reflecting prejudice; Ex. stereotype of the happy slave; V: make a stereotype of; represent by a stereotype; Ex. It is wrong to ster
sterile	 incapable of producing young; free from microorganism; V. sterilize
stickler	 perfectionist; person who insists things be exactly right
stifle	 suppress; extinguish; inhibit; smother or suffocate
stigma	 token of disgrace; brand; V. stigmatize: mark with a stigma; characterize as disgraceful
stilted	 bombastic; stiffly pompous; Ex. stilted rhetoric; CF. stiff: formal
stink	 stench; V: emit a strong foul odor
stint	 supply; allotted amount of work; assigned portion of work; limitation; Ex. two-year stint in the army; Ex. without stint
stipend	 pay for services
stipple	 paint or draw with dots or short strokes
stipulate	 state as a necessary condition (of an agreement); make express conditions; specify; Ex. He stipulated payment in advance
stock	 standard; kept regularly in stock or supply; typical; routine; common; Ex. stock sizes of paper; Ex. stock excuse/character; N: goods for sale in a shop; OP. unique
stockade	 wooden enclosure or pen; fixed line of posts used as defensive barrier
stodgy	 dull; stuffy; boringly conservative; Ex. stodgy book
stoic	 stoical; impassive; unmoved by joy or grief; N. CF. stoicism
stoke	 stir up a fire or furnace; feed plentifully
stolid	 dull; impassive; showing little emotion when strong feelings are expected
stoop	 bend forward and down; lower or debase oneself; fall to a lower standard of behavior by doing something; condescend; Ex. stoop to lying
stout	 rather fat; strong in body; sturdy; resolute; determined; strong in determination; Ex. stout stick/supporter
straggle	 stray or fall behind (a main group); spread out in a scattered group; Ex. straggling marathon racer; Ex. straggling branch
strangle	 kill by choking or suffocating; suppress
stratagem	 deceptive scheme; clever trick
stratified	 divided into classes; arranged into strata; V. stratify
stratum	 layer of earth's surface; layer of society; PL. strata
strew	 spread randomly; sprinkle; scatter; Ex. flower girl strewing rose petals
striated	 marked with parallel bands; striped; grooved; Ex. striated rocks; V. striate; N. stria: thin groove or line
stricture	 severe and adverse criticism; critical comments; limit or restriction
strident	 loud and harsh; insistent; N. stridency
stringent	 (of rules) binding; rigid; marked by scarcity of money; Ex. stringent economic conditions
strut	 supporting bar; CF. airplane wing building support
studied	 carefully contrived; calculated; unspontaneous; deliberate; thoughtful; Ex. studied remark
studious	 given to diligent study
stultify	 make stupid in mind; cause to appear or become stupid or inconsistent; suppress; frustrate or hinder; Ex. stultifying effect of uninteresting work; Ex. stultify free expression
stumble	 trip and almost fall; proceed unsteadily; act falteringly; N.
stump	 base of a tree trunk left after the rest has been cut down; V: walk in a heavy manner; baffle; puzzle
stun	 make unconscious or numb as by a blow; amaze; astound
stupefy	 stun; make numb (as with a drug); amaze
stupor	 state of being stupefied; state of apathy; daze; lack of awareness
sturdy	 strong and firm (in the body)
stygian	 unpleasantly dark; gloomy; hellish; deathly; CF. Styx: the chief river in the subterranean land of the dead
stymie	 thwart; present an obstacle; stump
suavity	 urbanity; polish; ADJ. suave: smooth and courteous
subaltern	 subordinate
subdue	 less intense; quieter; Ex. subdued lighting; Ex. subdue: conquer; make less intense; quiet; Ex. subdue one's anger
subjective	 influenced by personal feelings; occurring or taking place within the mind; unreal; Ex. subjective sensation of the ghostly presence
subjugate	 conquer; bring under control
sublimate	 refine; purify; replace (natural urges) with socially acceptable activities; change between a solid state and a gaseous state
sublime	 causing deep feelings of wonder, joy, respect, etc.; exalted; noble and uplifting; utter
subliminal	 below the threshold of conscious perception; Ex. subliminal advertisement
submerge	 place under water; dip; go under water; cover completely (as with water); Ex. submerged in work
submissive	 willing to obey orders; yielding; timid
subordinate	 occupying a lower rank; inferior; submissive; N. V: put in a lower rank or class
suborn	 persuade to act unlawfully (especially to commit perjury); N. subornation
subpoena	 writ(written command issued by a court) summoning a witness to appear in court; V: summon with a subpoena
subsequent	 following in time or order; later
subservient	 behaving like a slave; servile; obsequious; subordinate; N. subservience
subside	 sink to a lower level; settle down; sink to the bottom (as a sediment); descend; grow quiet; become less; moderate; abate
subsidiary	 serving to assist; subordinate; secondary; of a subsidy; N.
subsidy	 direct financial aid by government, etc.; V. subsidize: assist with a subsidy
subsistence	 existence; means of subsisting; means of support; livelihood; V. subsist: exist; maintain life (at a meager level)
substantial	 of substance; material; solid; essential or fundamental; ample; considerable; well-to-do; wealthy
substantiate	 support (a claim) with evidence; establish with evidence; verify
substantive	 substantial; essential; pertaining to the substance; substantial; considerable; Ex. substantive issues
subsume	 include (as a member of a group); encompass
subterfuge	 stratagem(deceptive scheme); pretense; evasion; Ex. resort to a harmless subterfuge
subtlety	 perceptiveness; ingenuity; delicacy; ADJ. subtle: delicate; so slight as to be difficult to detect; able to make fine distinctions; clever; Ex. subtle mind/differences in meaning
subversive	 tending to overthrow or ruin; V. subvert: overthrow completely (an established system); destroy completely; CF. undermine ?
succor	 assist (someone in difficulty); aid; comfort; N.
succulent	 juicy; full of juice or sap; full of richness; N: succulent plant such as a cactus
succumb	 yield (to something overwhelming); give in; die; Ex. succumb to the illness
suckle	 give or take milk at the breast or udder
suffocate	 die or kill from lack of air; suppress
suffragist	 advocate of the extension of voting rights (for women); CF. suffrage
suffuse	 spread through or over (with a color or liquid); charge; Ex. A blush suffused her cheeks.
suitor	 man who is courting a woman
sullen	 silently showing ill humor or resentment; dark; gloomy
sully	 defile; soil; tarnish; Ex. sully one's hands in menial labor
sultry	 (of weather) hot; sweltering; sensual; voluptuous
summation	 act of finding the total; summing-up; summary (esp. one given by the judge at the end of a trial)
sumptuous	 grand suggesting great expense; lavish; rich; Ex. sumptuous feast
sunder	 separate; part; CF. asunder
sundry	 miscellaneous; various; several; N. sundries: small miscellaneous items
superannuated	 retired or disqualified because of age; outmoded; obsolete
supercilious	 haughty; arrogant; condescending; patronizing; CF. eyebrow, cilium
supererogatory	 superfluous; more than needed or demanded
superficial	 of the surface; not deep; shallow; not thorough; trivial; Ex. superficial analysis/knowledge
superfluous	 excessive; overabundant; unnecessary; N. superfluity
superimpose	 place over something else
supernumerary	 person or thing excess of what is necessary; extra; ADJ: additional to the usual or necessary number
supersede	 replace; cause to be set aside; make obsolete; N. supersession
supine	 lying on back; passive; inactive; Ex. The defeated pugilist lay supine; Ex. supine acceptance of the decision
supplant	 take the place of unfairly; usurp; replace
supple	 flexible; limber; pliant
suppliant	 entreating; beseeching; N.
supplicant	 one who supplicates; ADJ.
supplicate	 petition humbly; pray to grant a favor
supposition	 assumption; hypothesis; surmise; V. suppose
supposititious	 assumed; counterfeit; hypothetical
suppress	 put an end to forcibly; subdue; stifle; overwhelm; inhibit the expression of; check; prevent from being published or made public; Ex. suppress a smile; Ex. suppress the magazine/truth
surfeit	 satiate; feed or supply to excess; stuff; indulge to excess in anything; N: surfeiting; excessive amount; Ex. surfeit of food
surge	 powerful movement of or like a wave; V.
surly	 bad-tempered; rude; cross
surmise	 guess; N.
surmount	 overcome
surpass	 exceed
surreptitious	 done secretly; secret; furtive; sneaky; hidden
surrogate	 substitute; person or thing used in place of another; Ex. surrogate mother; ADJ.
surveillance	 close observation of a person (esp. one under suspicion); watching; guarding
susceptible	 impressionable; easily influenced; sensitive; having little resistance as to a disease; likely to suffer; receptive to; capable of accepting; Ex. susceptible to persuasion/colds; Ex. The agreement is not susceptible of alteration; N. susceptibility
suspend	 cause to stop for a period; interrupt; hold in abeyance; defer; hang from above; exclude for a period from a position; Ex. suspended state; Ex. suspend judgment; Ex. suspended from the team; N. suspension
suspense	 state of being undecided; anxiety or apprehension resulting from uncertainty
sustain	 suffer (harm or loss); experience; support; prop; maintain; keep in existence; nourish (to maintain life); Ex. sustain the family/the trapped miners
sustenance	 sustaining; means of livelihood, support, food, nourishment; something that maintains life; food
suture	 stitches sewn to hold the cut edges of a wound or incision; material used in sewing; V: sew together a wound
swagger	 walk or behave with an over-confident manner
swamp	 wetland; marsh; V: flood; overwhelm; drench in with liquid
swarm	 large group of insects moving in a mass; crowd of people or animals; V: move in a crowd or mass
swarthy	 (of a skin or complexion) dark; dusky; Ex. swarthy Italian ?
swathe	 swath; wrap around; bandage; Ex. one's head swathed in bandages
sway	 swing from side to side; influence (someone) to change one's opinion; N.
swear	 vow; promise; use profane oaths; use offensive words
swear-word	 word considered offensive; Ex. ``bloody''
swell	 long wave of water that moves continuously without breaking; V.
swelter	 (of a person) suffer from oppressive heat; be oppressed by heat
swerve	 deviate; turn aside sharply from a straight course; Ex. swerve from the principle; Ex. The car swerved to the right.
swill	 drink greedily
swindler	 cheater
swipe	 hit with a sweeping motion; N.
sybarite	 lover of luxury; person devoted to pleasure and luxury; CF. Sybaris: an ancient Greek city in Italy
sycophant	 servile flatterer; bootlicker; yes man; ADJ. sycophantic
syllogism	 logical formula consisting of a major premise, a minor premise and a conclusion; deceptive or specious argument
sylvan	 pertaining to the woods or the country
symbiosis	 interdependent relationship (between groups, species) often mutually beneficial; ADJ. symbiotic; CF. together + life
symmetry	 arrangement of parts so that balance is obtained; congruity; ADJ. symmetrical
synchronous	 similarly timed; simultaneous with; occurring at the same time; V. synchronize
synoptic	 providing a general overview; summary; N. synopsis
synthesis	 combining parts or separate things into a whole; the whole so formed; PL. syntheses; V. synthesize
synthetic	 not natural; artificial; resulting from synthesis; Ex. synthetic fiber; N.