tablet	 small round piece of medicine; flat piece of stone or metal bearing an inscription; Ex. stone tablet on the wall
tacit	 understood (without actually being expressed); not put into words; Ex. tacit agreement
taciturn	 habitually silent; talking little
tact	 skill or sensitivity in dealing with people without causing offence
tactful	 careful no to cause offence; OP. tactless
tactile	 pertaining to the organs or sense of touch
taint	 contaminate; cause to lose purity; modify with a trace of something bad; Ex. tainted reputation; N: stain; touch of decay or bad influence; CF. touch
takeoff	 burlesque; act of leaving the ground
talisman	 charm; object believed to give supernatural powers to or protect its bearer
talon	 claw of bird
tan	 convert (hide) into leather; make brown by exposure to the sun
tangential	 only slightly connected; not central; peripheral; digressing; showing divergence; CF. tangent
tangible	 able to be touched; real; concrete; palpable; possible to realize or understand; Ex. tangible proof
tanner	 person who turns animal hides into leather
tantalize	 tease; excite by exposing something desirable while keeping it out of reach; torture with disappointment; CF. Tantalus: Greek mythological figure
tantamount	 equivalent in effect or value; Ex. This invasion is tantamount to a declaration of war; CF. amount
tantrum	 fit of bad temper; fit of petulance; caprice; Ex. The child went into tantrums.
taper	 very thin candle; gradual decrease in the width of a long object; V. make or become gradually narrower toward one end
tarantula	 venomous spider
tardy	 slow; sluggish; not on time; late; Ex. tardy arrival
tarnish	 make or become dull or discolored; N.
tarry	 linger; delay in starting or going; dawdle
tart	 sharp to the taste; acid-tasting; caustic; sarcastic; Ex. tart apple/reply
tatter	 torn piece of cloth; ADJ. tattered: (of clothes) old and torn; (of a person) dressed in old torn clothes
taunt	 deride or provoke; challenge in derision; N.
taut	 tight; strained; tense; ready; OP. slack
tautological	 needlessly repetitious; Ex. ``It was visible to the eye''; N. tautology: needless repetition of the same sense; statement that is always true
tawdry	 cheap and gaudy; Ex. tawdry jewelry
tawny	 brownish yellow
taxonomist	 specialist in classifying (animals, etc.); CF. taxonomy: science of classification
tedium	 boredom; weariness; ADJ. tedious
teetotalism	 practice of abstaining totally from alcoholic drinks; N. teetotaler;; ADJ. teetotal; CF. T + total
temerity	 boldness; nerve; rashness; Ex. temerity to ask for a pay increase after only three day's work
temper	 moderate; make less severe; tone down or restrain; toughen (steel) as by alternate heating and cooling
temperament	 characteristic frame of mind; disposition; emotional excess; ADJ. temperamental: of temperament; having frequent changes of temper; Ex. temperamental dislike of sports; Ex. temperamental actress
temperate	 moderate; restrained; self-controlled; moderate in respect to temperature; CF. temperance: moderation and self-restraint; abstinence of alcoholic drinks; Ex. temperance society
tempestuous	 stormy; violent; impassioned; N. tempest: violent storm
tempo	 speed of music
temporal	 of time; not lasting forever; limited by time; temporary; secular; worldly
temporize	 gain time as by postponing an action; avoid committing oneself
tenacious	 holding fast (as to a belief); persistent
tenacity	 firmness; persistence
tenancy	 possession of land or building by rent; period of a tenant's occupancy
tenant	 one that pays rent to use property owned by another
tend	 have a tendency; take care of; minister; serve at; apply one's attention; attend
tendentious	 promoting a particular point of view; biased; having an aim; designed to further a cause; Ex. tendentious rather than truth-seeking; CF. tend: move in a certain direction
tender	 offer formally; extend; Ex. tender one's resignation/the exact fare; N: formal offer; money; Ex. legal tender; ADJ: young and vulnerable; sensitive to the touch; sore; soft; delicate; Ex. child of tender years; Ex. tender wound
tenet	 doctrine; dogma
tensile	 capable of being stretched; of tension; Ex. tensile rubber
tension	 stretching; condition of being stretched; mental strain; strained relationship between groups or people
tentative	 not fully worked out or developed; provisional; experimental; uncertain; hesitant; not definite or positive; Ex. tentative agreement/reply
tenuous	 thin; slim; rare
tenure	 holding of an office or real estate; time during which such an office is held
tepid	 lukewarm; slightly warm; half-hearted; not eager; Ex. tepid reaction to the new film; Ex. tepid supporter
terminal	 part that forms the end; railroad or bus station; ADJ. forming an end; ending in death; fatal; Ex. terminal cancer
termination	 end; V. terminate
terminology	 terms used in a science or art; study of nomenclature
terminus	 last stop of railroad; end
terrestrial	 on or relating to the earth
terse	 concise; abrupt; pithy
tertiary	 third in order or rank
tessellated	 mosaic; inlaid; Ex. tessellated pattern
testator	 maker of a will; CF. testatrix
testy	 irritable; impatient and bad-tempered; short-tempered; N. testiness
tether	 tie (an animal) with a rope or tether; N: rope or chain to which an animal is tied; limit of one's endurance; Ex. the end of one's tether
thematic	 of a theme; relating to a unifying motif or idea
theocracy	 government run by religious leaders
theoretical	 based on theory; not practical or applied; hypothetical
therapeutic	 curative; N. therapy
thermal	 pertaining to heat; producing heat; warm; Ex. thermal bath; N: rising current of warm air
thesis	 opinion put forward and supported by reasoned arguments
thespian	 pertaining to drama; N: actor or actress
thrall	 slave; bondage; slavery; Ex. Her beauty held him in thrall; CF. enthrall
thrash	 beat with a whip or flail; defeat utterly; talk about thoroughly in order to find the answer; move wildly or violently; Ex. The fishes thrashed about in the net.
threadbare	 worn through till the threads show; shabby and poor; hackneyed; Ex. threadbare excuses
threat	 sign or warning (of coming danger); Ex. threat of rain; V: express a threat; give warning of (something bad); Ex. The cloud threatens rain.
thresh	 beat (cereal plants) with a machine or flail to separate the grains from the straw
thrifty	 careful about money; economical; N. thrift
thrive	 prosper; flourish
throb	 (of a heart or machine) beat rapidly or violently; N. Ex. hearthrob: heartbeat; sweetheart
throes	 violent anguish
throng	 crowd (of people or things); V.
throttle	 strangle; regulate the speed of with a throttle; N: valve that regulates the flow; CF. throat ?
thwart	 block or hinder; baffle; frustrate
tickle	 touch (the body) lightly so as to cause laughter; please
tightwad	 miser; excessively frugal person
tiller	 handle used to move boat's rudder (to steer)
timbre	 quality of a musical tone produced by a musical instrument (which distinguishes it from others of the same pitch)
timidity	 lack of self-confidence or courage
timorous	 fearful; timid; demonstrating fear
tinge	 give a slight degree of a color or quality to; N: slight degree of a color or quality; Ex. tinged with grey/jealousy
tint	 slight degree of color; V: give a tint to
tipple	 drink (alcoholic beverages) frequently; N: alcoholic drink
tirade	 long angry denunciatory speech; diatribe; harangue; extended scolding; denunciation
titanic	 gigantic; N. titan
tithe	 tax of one-tenth (contributed to a church); V: pay a tithe
titillate	 tickle; excite pleasantly; Ex. not to titillate the audience but to enlighten it
title	 name (of a book, film, etc.); mark of rank; formal appellation as of rank or office (such as Lord or General); right or claim to possession; championship; Ex. title as head of the family; Ex. title to the estate
titter	 nervous giggle; nervous laugh; V.
titular	 of a title; in name only; nominal; having the title of an office without the obligations; Ex. titular head of the company
toady	 servile flatterer; yes man; sycophant; V: be a toady to; fawn
toga	 Roman outer robe
token	 outward sign; Ex. a token of our gratitude
toll	 sound (a large bell) slowly at regular intervals; N: sound of a bell; fixed tax or charge
tome	 large volume; book
tonsure	 shaving of the head especially by person entering religious orders; V.
topography	 physical features of a region (such as the shape and height); CF. topo-: place
topple	 become unsteady and fall down
torpedo	 underwater explosive apparatus; V.
torpor	 lethargy; sluggishness; dormancy; ADJ. torpid: lethargic; lazy; inactive; (of an animal) dormant; hibernating
torque	 twisting force; force producing rotation
torrent	 rushing stream; flood; Ex. The rain fell in torrents.
torrid	 (of weather) hot or scorching; passionate; Ex. torrid love affairs
torso	 trunk of statue with head and limbs missing; human trunk
tortuous	 winding; full of curves; Ex. tortuous mountain road
toss	 throw lightly; move or lift (the head) with a sudden motion; flip (a coin) to decide something
totem	 animal, plant, or natural object serving as a symbol of a clan or family; representation of this; Ex. totem pole
totter	 shake or move unsteadily; sway as if about to fall
touching	 causing a feeling of pity or sympathy; pathetic; V. touch: cause to feel pity or sympathy; ADJ. touched
touchstone	 stone used to test the fineness of gold alloys; criterion; standard
touchy	 oversensitive; easily offended; irasible; delicate; needing delicate handling; Ex. touchy situation
tout	 promote or publicize (one's goods or service); praise excessively (as a form of advertisement); CF. advertise
toxic	 poisonous; N. toxicity
tract	 propaganda pamphlet (esp. by a religious or political group); expanse of land; region of indefinite size; system of related organs; Ex. digestive tract
tractable	 docile; easily managed; (of something) easily changed or molded; N. tractability
traduce	 expose to slander
trajectory	 path taken by a projectile; Ex. trajectory of a bullet
tramp	 walk with a heavy step; travel on foot; N: vagrant; one who travels aimlessly about; long walk; sound of heavy walking
trample	 step heavily with the feet; crush under the feet
trance	 hypnotic state; ecstatic state; detachment from one's physical surrounding (as in contemplation or daydreaming); CF. transition
tranquillity	 calmness; peace
transcendent	 exceeding ordinary limits; superior; surpassing; V. transcend: go beyond; exceed; surpass; N. transcendancy
transcendental	 going beyond common thought or ideas; impossible to understand by practical experiences or practices; known only by studying thoughts or intuition; OP. empirical; CF. transcendentalism
transcribe	 copy; write a copy of; N. transcription
transgression	 violation of a law; sin; V. transgress: go beyond (a limit); violate; do wrong
transient	 staying for a short time; momentary; temporary; N: one that is transient
transition	 going from one state of action to another
transitory	 transient; impermanent; fleeting; N. transitoriness
translucent	 partly transparent
transmute	 transform; change; convert to something different
transparent	 permitting light to pass through freely; easily detected; obvious; clear; Ex. transparent lie
transpire	 (of a fact) become known; be revealed; happen; give off (watery waste matter) through pores
transport	 strong emotion; rapture; Ex. in a transport/transports of; V: move to strong emotion; enrapture
transpose	 reverse the order or position of
trappings	 outward decorations; ornaments (as an outward sign of rank)
traumatic	 (of an experience) deeply shocking; pertaining to an injury caused by violence; N. trauma: serious wound; emotional shock that causes lasting psychological damage
travail	 strenuous work; toil; painful labor; labor of childbirth
traverse	 go through or across
travesty	 copy or example of something that completely misrepresents the true nature of the real thing; comical parody or imitation; treatment aimed at making something appear ridiculous; Ex. travesty of justice; OP. paragon
tread	 walk; trample; N: grooved face of a tire; horizontal part of a step
treasure	 keep as precious; cherish
treatise	 article treating a subject systematically and thoroughly
trek	 travel; journey; V: make a long difficult journey
tremor	 trembling; slight quiver (as of the earth or from nervous agitation)
tremulous	 trembling; wavering
trenchant	 cutting; incisive; keen
trepidation	 fear; nervous apprehension
tribulation	 suffering; ordeal; distress; trial
tribunal	 court of justice
tribune	 official of ancient Rome elected by the plebians to protect their rights; protector of the people
tribute	 tax levied by a ruler; payment made by one nation to another in acknowledgment of submission; mark of respect (such as praise or gift); Ex. pay tribute to
trickle	 flow in drops or in a thin stream; N.
trickster	 person who cheats people
trident	 three-pronged spear
trifle	 something of little importance or value; small amount; Ex. a trifle; V: treat without seriousness; flirt
trifling	 trivial; unimportant
trigger	 set off; start
trilogy	 group of three related works (connected by a shared subject but each complete in itself)
trim	 make neat or tidy by clipping; reduce by removing what is unnecessary; ornament; decorate (round the edges); Ex. trim the cost; Ex. jacket trimmed with fur; N. ADJ: tidy; in good order
trinket	 knickknack; bauble; cheap jewelry
trite	 hackneyed; commonplace
trivia	 trifles; unimportant matters
troth	 pledge of good faith especially in betrothal; betrothal; Ex. by my troth
trough	 long narrow container for feeding farm animals; lowest point (of a wave, business cycle, etc.); long narrow depression as between waves
truculence	 aggressiveness; ferocity; ADJ. truculent: aggressive; pugnacious; fierce
truism	 self-evident truth
truncate	 cut the top off; shorten
trunk	 main wooden stem of a tree; human body excluding the head and limbs; torso; prehensile nose of an elephant
tryst	 meeting arranged by lovers; arrangement between lovers to meet
tumid	 (of a part of the body) swollen; distended; bombastic; pompous
tumult	 commotion of a great crowd; riot; noise; uproar; ADJ. tumultuous: noisy and disorderly
tundra	 rolling treeless plain in Siberia and arctic North America
turbid	 (of a liquid) having the sediment disturbed; muddy; thick
turbulence	 state of violent agitation; ADJ. turbulent: violently agitated or disturbed
tureen	 deep dish for serving soup
turgid	 swollen; distended (as from liquid)
turmoil	 extreme confusion; great commotion and confusion; Ex. throw the country into turmoil
turncoat	 traitor
turpitude	 depravity; baseness; Ex. moral turpitude
tutelage	 guardianship; training; function of a tutor; instruction
tutelary	 protective; pertaining to a guardianship; Ex. tutelary deities
tycoon	 wealthy and powerful businessperson; wealthy leader; magnate; Ex. business tycoon
typhoon	 tropical hurricane or cyclone
tyranny	 oppression; cruel government; ADJ. tyrannical: of a tyrant or tyranny; despotic; V. tyrannize: treat tyrannically; oppress
tyro	 beginner; novice