
 
Home
 
Screen Shots
 
Download
 
Buy Now !
 
Comments
 
Articles
 
FAQ 
 
Contact
Links	
Barron GRE word list - V
vacillate	 waver (in opinion); fluctuate; sway to and fro; N. vacillation
vacuous	 empty; lacking in ideas; inane; stupid; Ex. vacuous expression; N. vacuity
vagabond	 wanderer (without a permanent home); tramp
vagary	 capricious happening; caprice; whim; CF. wander
vagrant	 homeless wanderer
vain	 full of self-admiration; conceited; without result; unsuccessful; N. vanity
vainglorious	 boastful; excessively conceited; N. vainglory: great vanity
valediction	 saying farewell; expression of leave-taking
valedictory	 pertaining to farewell; N: farewell address (esp. at graduation exercises)
valid	 logically convincing; sound; legally acceptable; effective; Ex. valid reasoning/passport
validate	 make valid; confirm; ratify
valor	 bravery; ADJ. valiant: possessing valor; brave
vampire	 ghostly being that sucks the blood of the living
vanguard	 forerunners; foremost position of an army; advance forces; foremost position in a trend or movement; CF. rearguard
vantage	 position giving an advantage (such as a strategic point); CF. vantagepoint
vapid	 lacking liveliness; dull and unimaginative; insipid and flavorless; Ex. vapid lecture
vaporize	 turn into vapor (steam, gas, fog, etc.)
variegate	 change the appearance of (by marking with different colors)
variegated	 (esp. of a flower or leaf) many-colored
varnish	 paint used to coat a surface with a glossy film; glossy coating produced by using this substance; Ex. nail varnish; V.
vassal	 in feudalism, one who held land of a superior lord; subordinate or dependent
vaunted	 boasted; bragged; highly publicized; V. vaunt: boast; brag
veer	 change in direction; swerve
vegetate	 live in a monotonous way (without interests or activity); CF. vegetation: plants of an area; CF. vegetarian; CF. vegan
vehement	 forceful; intensely emotional; with marked vigor; strong; N. vehemence
velocity	 speed
venal	 capable of being bribed; corrupt; CF. vernal
vendetta	 blood feud (esp. between two families); CF. Nina Williams
vendor	 seller
veneer	 thin surface layer (of good quality wood, glued to a base of inferior material); cover; surface show; fa\c{c}ade; V.
venerable	 deserving high respect; commanding respect; CF. command: deserve and get
venerate	 revere; treat with great respect
venial	 (of a fault or sin) forgivable; trivial
venison	 meat of a deer; CF. cow: beef; CF. pig: pork, ham, bacon; CF. calf: veal; CF. sheep: mutton; CF. lamb: lamb
venom	 poison (of an animal); hatred; Ex. remarks full of venom; ADJ. venomous
vent	 release or discharge through a vent; express (esp. unfairly); utter; Ex. He vented his wrath on his family.
ventilate	 admit fresh air into to replace stale air
ventral	 abdominal
ventriloquist	 someone who can make his or her voice seem to come from another person or thing (without moving lips or jaws); N. ventriloquism, ventriloquy
venture	 risk; expose to risk; dare; undertake a risk; N.
venturesome	 (of a person) bold; adventurous; daring; (of an action) risky
venue	 location; place (of a crime, trial, gathering, etc.); CF. come
veracious	 (of a person) truthful
veracity	 truthfulness; adherence to the truth
verbalize	 put into words; ADJ. verbal: of words; spoken rather than written; oral; of a verb
verbatim	 word for word; in the same words; repeating the actual words exactly
verbiage	 pompous array of words; too many unnecessary words; wordiness
verbose	 wordy; N. verbosity
verdant	 green; covered with green plants or grass; lush in vegetation; Ex. verdant meadows
verdigris	 green coating or patina on copper which has been exposed to the weather
verge	 border; edge, rim, or margin; Ex. on the verge of: very near to; V: border on
verisimilar	 having the appearance of truth or reality; probable or likely to be true; plausible
verisimilitude	 appearance of truth; quality of appearing to be true or real; likelihood; Ex. verisimilitude of her performance as Lady Macbeth
veritable	 being truly so; real or genuine; actual; not false or imaginary
verity	 quality of being true; lasting truth or principle; Ex. the verity of his testimony; Ex. one of the eternal verities
vernacular	 living language (as compared to the official language); language spoken in a country or region; natural style; Ex. lapse into the vernacular
vernal	 pertaining to spring
versatile	 having many talents; capable of working in many fields; having many uses or functions; N. versatility
vertebrate	 having a backbone or spinal column; N: group of animals having a segmented spinal column
vertex	 summit; highest point; PL. vertices
vertigo	 severe dizziness; giddiness
verve	 enthusiasm (as in artistic performance or composition); liveliness; vigor
vestige	 trace; remains; Ex. vestiges of some ancient religion
veto	 vested power to reject a bill; exercise of this right; V: prevent or forbid by exercising the power of veto
vex	 annoy; distress
viable	 capable of maintaining life; feasible; practical or workable; Ex. viable scheme
viand	 food; CF. live
vibrant	 full of vigor or energy; vibrating
vicar	 parish priest; representative
vicarious	 experienced as if one were taking part in the experience of another; done by a deputy for other people; acting as a substitute; Ex. vicarious thrill at the movies; Ex. the vicarious sufferings of Christ
vicissitude	 change (esp. from good to bad); change of fortune; CF. the last emperor of China
victuals	 food; provisions; V. victual: provide with food
vie	 contend; compete
vigil	 keeping watch (during normal sleeping hours); Ex. all-night vigil
vigilant	 watchful; on the alert; watchfully awake; alert to spot danger; N. vigilance
vigilante	 one who without authority assumes law enforcement powers
vignette	 small drawing placed at the beginning or end of a chapter; picture; short literary sketch; short written description of a character or scene
vigor	 active strength; energy; enthusiasm; ADJ. vigorous
vile	 despicable; unpleasant; disgusting; Ex. vile slander
vilify	 slander; speak evil of; N. vilification
vindicate	 clear from blame; free from blame or accusation (with supporting proof); exonerate; substantiate; justify or support; avenge; Ex. vindicate one's client; Ex. vindicate one's claim; CF. vindicator
vindictive	 disposed to revenge; vengeful; out for revenge; spiteful; intended to cause harm; malicious; Ex. vindictive streak
vintner	 wine merchant; winemaker; seller of wine
violate	 break (a law); defile; desecrate; assault sexually; Ex. violate graves
viper	 poisonous snake
virile	 manly; having masculine spirit or strength; full of strength
virtual	 in essence; existing in essence though not in actual form; for practical purposes; Ex. virtual ruler/space
virtue	 goodness; moral excellence; good quality; advantage; Ex. by virtue of; Ex. make a virtue of necessity
virtuoso	 highly skilled artist (esp. in music); Ex. piano virtuoso
virulent	 (of a disease or poison) extremely harmful or poisonous; (of a feeling) hostile; bitter; N. virulence; CF. virus; CF. venom
virus	 disease communicator
visage	 face; appearance
visceral	 felt in one's inner organs; N. viscera: internal body organs; CF. eviscerate
viscid	 adhesive; gluey
viscous	 (of a liquid) thick and sticky; gluey; viscid; CF. consistency
vise	 vice; tool for holding work in place; clamping device
vision	 eyesight; foresight; mental image produced by the imagination; experience of seeing the supernatural
visionary	 produced by imagination; fanciful; mystical; showing foresight; N: one having foresight; one given to speculative impractical ideas
vital	 full of life; animated; vibrant and lively; critical; of great importance; necessary to stay alive; of life; living; breathing; N. vitality; V. vitalize
vitiate	 spoil the effect of; make inoperative; corrupt morally
vitreous	 of glass; pertaining to or resembling glass; V. vitrify: change into glass; CF. petrify
vitriolic	 causing sharp pain to the mind; caustic; corrosive; sarcastic; of vitriol; N. vitriol: sulphuric acid (which burns flesh deeply); bitterly abusive expression; caustic expression; CF. glass
vituperative	 abusive; scolding; V. vituperate: berate; scold; rail against abusively
vivacious	 lively or animated; sprightl sprightly/lively
vivid	 (of light or color) bright and distinct; evoking lifelike mental images; Ex. vivid red hair/description
vivisection	 act of dissecting living animals
vixen	 female fox; ill-tempered woman; CF. shrew
vociferous	 clamorous; noisy; V. vociferate: cry out loudly (when complaining)
vogue	 popular fashion; Ex. Jeans became the vogue.
volatile	 changeable; of a quickly changing nature (as of temper); mercurial; tending to violence; evaporating rapidly; Ex. volatile character/situation in the street
volition	 act of using one's will; act of making a conscious choice; Ex. She selected this dress of her own volition.
volley	 simultaneous discharge of a number of shots; V.
voluble	 fluent; talkative; glib; N. volubility
voluminous	 having great volume (as of a garment or container); bulky; large
voluptuous	 sensual; of or giving sensual pleasure; indulging in sensual pleasures; Ex. voluptuous lines; Ex. voluptuous life of the Romans; N. voluptuary: voluptuous person
voodoo	 religion practiced chiefly in Haiti
voracious	 ravenous; eating large quantities of food; exceedingly eager; insatiable; Ex. voracious animal/reader
vortex	 whirlwind; whirlpool; center of turbulence; predicament into which one is inexorably plunged
vouch	 give a personal guarantee; Ex. I can vouch for his integrity; N. voucher
vouchsafe	 grant condescendingly; guarantee; Ex. vouchsafe your fair return on your investment
voyeur	 Peeping Tom; person who derives sexual gratification from observing the sexual acts of others
vulgar	 of the common people; deficient in refinement; not refined; coarse; Ex. vulgar display of wealth; N. vulgarism: vulgarity; crudely indecent word; CF. vulgarian: vulgar person; boor; lout
vulnerable	 susceptible to wounds or attack; N. vulnerability
vulpine	 like a fox; crafty
vulture	 carrion-eating birds
vying	 contending; CF. vie